Black Lives Matter advocates and refugee activists will hold protests throughout Australia on Saturday , despite warnings from health authorities they could lead to Covid 19 outbreaks . 
Australia ’s chief medical officer , Prof Brendan Murphy , said on Friday , " These sort of events really are dangerous " . 
However the prime minister , Scott Morrison , announced on the same day that major sports stadiums may allow 10,000 people by July . 
It follows protests last weekend , when people took to the streets campaigning for an end to Aboriginal deaths in custody . 
There have been 437 known Aboriginal deaths since the royal commission into Aboriginal deaths in custody delivered its final report in 1991 , and yet despite this , change has been slow . 
The protests were sparked in solidarity with the US following the brutal death of unarmed man George Floyd on 25 May . One man was diagnosed with the virus following the Melbourne protests , with health authorities saying he was likely infected prior to the rally . 
Victoria police issued fines of $ 1652 each to the three people who organised the protest . 
More protests took place in Sydney and Perth on Friday night . 
About 300 people who gathered in Sydney ’s city were outnumbered by about 600 police officers , in an event deemed unlawful because police were not formally notified . 
The peaceful protest was also brief , ending around 8pm . 
Two stray observations from today ’s protest:1 ) These guys were already there , protecting the Captain Cook statue - which nobody else ended up going near 2 ) Saw a few commercial TV reporters and crew who clearly have started hiring their own security Thousands of protesters will gather in Perth for Saturday ’s protest at Langley Park . 
Organisers have ignored Premier Mark Mc Gowan ’s pleas to delay the protest until after the coronavirus pandemic is over . 
Meanwhile , refugee activists will spread themselves out in Melbourne in an attempt to avoid the same fines issued to the organisers of last weekend ’s rally . 
The group said its rallies will have no more than 20 people in eight different locations to protest against the indefinite detention of asylum seekers . 
