The UK media has widely published a new slogan expected to be unveiled by UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Sunday evening , in which the advice to " stay home " will be replaced with " stay alert . " 
Johnson said earlier this week that he will present a plan to begin easing the country 's lockdown , and that he hoped some measures could be relaxed by Monday . 
But Johnson has struggled to get all four countries within the UK on the same page , and Scotland ’s First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said Sunday she would stick with the older " stay at home " message for her people . 
The UK 's Press Association reported the new slogan , and said that Johnson was also expected to encourage people unable to work from home to return to their workplaces while practicing social distancing . 
Restrictions limiting outdoor exercise to once per day will be lifted and garden centers will be allowed to reopen , though fines for breaking lockdown rules will be increased , PA said . 
Johnson 's government has come under intense criticism over its messaging around the coronavirus response . 
On Sunday , the BBC 's Andrew Marr pressed Robert Jenrick , a Cabinet minister , on how the slogan and other details were leaked to some journalists before the Prime Minister 's announcement . 
Jenrick added that despite the new slogan , the government would still encourage people to stay at home . 
" Staying at home will still be an important part of the message . 
We want people to stay at home as much as possible , " he said . 
But the government wanted to issue a more nuanced message , he explained , that emphasized vigilance , such as hand washing and maintaining social distancing , for people who were returning to work or look after the vulnerable . 
He rejected criticism that the government was being bold in its easing , despite the country 's death toll now reaching above 31,000 deaths , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
" There will be no grand reopening of the economy tonight , " he said . 
" We will help to control the virus and in time ... we will be able to gradually reopen the economy and other aspects of our lives . " 
