AFP has this amazing story about an Argentine man who sailed across the Atlantic to see his ageing parents " Mission accomplished ! " 
That joyful declaration came from Juan Manuel Ballestero , an Argentine sailor who , unable to fly home from Portugal due to the pandemic , crossed the ocean alone in his modest sailboat to see his ageing parents . 
" I did it ! 
I did it ! 
I did it ! " 
Ballestero exclaimed at dockside last week when he reached his hometown of Mar del Plata . 
The 47 year old had completed an exhausting 85 day odyssey in his small boat , the nine meter " Skua . " 
After testing negative for Covid 19 on arrival , Ballestero was cleared to set foot on dry land to see his mother 82 year old Nilda and father Carlos , aged 90 . 
" I ’ve achieved what I ’ve been fighting for these last three months , " he told AFP . 
" It came down to this : to be with the family . 
That ’s why I came . " 
He had hoped to arrive in Argentina by May 15 , for his father ’s 90th birthday . 
He missed that date , but instead was able to celebrate Father ’s Day with his family . 
Ballestero , who works in Spain , hatched his ambitious plan for a single handed sea passage after flights back to Argentina were canceled because of the pandemic . 
He learned during the long trip home that " people were dying every day , by the thousands , " a jarring realization at a time when he was " in the middle of nature , seeing how the world goes on . 
" There were dolphins and whales ... even as humanity was passing through this difficult moment . " 
For 54 long days , his family had no word from him . 
" But we knew he was going to come , " said a smiling Carlos . 
" We had no doubt . 
He was coming to Mar del Plata to be with his parents . " 
The coronavirus has claimed 1,000 lives in Argentina , many of them elderly people like Carlos and his wife . 
The younger Ballestero ’s first stop on the 12,000 kilometer trip was at Vitoria , Brazil ; the last one before arrival was in La Paloma , Uruguay . 
The Skua now sits docked at the Mar del Plata nautical club , and probably wo not be leaving soon . 
Ballestero has no immediate travel plans . 
