Testing " as many people as possible " is vital to helping fight the coronavirus pandemic , 11 directors of some of the various National Institutes of Health said Tuesday . 
Their joint blog post contradicts recently changed guidance from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , which indicates that not everyone who believes they have been exposed needs to be tested . 
CDC guidance about testing was changed last month to indicate that not everyone who has been near or with someone with coronavirus needs to be tested . 
A senior federal health official told CNN this was because of pressure from the Trump administration . 
" Unfortunately , there still is a lot of confusion about where to get a test and who should get tested , " the NIH directors said . 
" It is becoming clear that for a person to test positive , they have to have a significant amount of the virus in their system . 
This means that if you have no symptoms but think or were told that you were in contact with a person with COVID 19 , you should isolate yourself immediately , call your health care provider , and then get a test . " 
Testing is the cornerstone of the basic public health approach for controlling disease outbreaks : contact tracing . 
" Testing can help people determine if they are infected with SARS Co V 2 – regardless of whether they have symptoms – and whether they are at risk of spreading the infection to others . 
Taking measures to prevent the spread of infection will be the most effective strategy for getting us safely back to work and school , " the directors wrote . 
Those signing the blog post include the directors of the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development ; the National Library of Medicine ; 
National Heart , Lung , and Blood Institute ; 
National Institute of Mental Health ; 
National Institute on Aging ; 
National Institute of General Medical Sciences ; 
National Heart , Lung , and Blood Institute ; 
National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities ; 
NIH Office of Behavioral and Social Sciences Research ; 
National Institute of Nursing Research ; and the National Institute on Drug Abuse . 
