Levels of concern over the spread of coronavirus remain high in York , where the UK ’s only two positive tested cases of the illness were detected last week . 
York Central ’s MP , Rachael Maskell , raised concerns in a Commons debate about the coronavirus on Monday , in particular raising concerns about how MPs , the NHS , the council and other statutory agencies have been briefed over Coronavirus developments in the city , reports York paper The Press . 
She said : I particularly thank Public Health England for the advice it has provided throughout the weekend , but levels of concern remain high in York . 
Not only is that impacting on the local economy , but people are concerned . 
That concern could be alleviated by better communication and if the statutory bodies — including the local authority , the university , the police and other authorities — are kept better informed about what is happening . 
A reader from York emailed me to say he senses a huge disparity between what was happening in York , where the patients were detected , in Newcastle , where they have been taken for treatment , and in the Wirral , where British nationals repatriated from Wuhan have been taken to quarantine . 
He said : In the Wirral there is military grade assistance to care for people suspected with Corona virus , whereas in York there is nothing , and we ’ve actually had it here . 
There is huge concern about whether the virus was passed onto anyone . 
PHE are not giving out any information and it ’s impossible to know if we are at risk or not . 
We do not know when the two individuals arrived , how they got here ? , how long they stayed ? , where did they go ? , where did they eat ? 
York City Council even announced that York was ‘ safe and open for business ’ shortly after the coronavirus discovery was published . 
This careless statement filled the streets over the weekend . 
York has given every opportunity possible to spread this virus . 
Rachael Maskell , our local MP , has voiced her concerns over the lack of information whereas York city council have a blasé attitude of " just sneeze into your elbow and essentially keep calm and carry on . " 
The people of York want answers so we can make informed decisions . 
