At least seven European countries have reported their first cases of novel coronavirus in the past two days , as the outbreak spreads across the world . 
Elsewhere in Europe , Italy is struggling to contain its outbreak -- the largest outside Asia . 
Meanwhile , authorities in the Middle East are also racing to contain the virus spread . 
In Asia , the epidemic is far from over -- South Korea has reported its largest number of new infections yet on Thursday . 
What you need to know : South Korea spike : The East Asian country reported more than 500 new cases and one death in 24 hours , bringing the national total to 1,766 cases and 13 deaths . 
Many of the cases are linked to a religious group in the country 's south . 
The total new case count is more than China ’s announcement today of 433 new cases . 
Military infections : Joint US South Korea military drills have been postponed " until further notice " after a US soldier and several members of the South Korean military contracted the virus . 
Diamond Princess quarantine flawed : A top Japanese government adviser has admitted to CNN that authorities knew that by allowing crew members to continue working they were risking further spread of the infection . 
" We suspected some of the cruise staff may have already been infected , but ... they had to operate the cruise ship itself , they had to see the passengers , they had to deliver the meals , " Dr . Norio Ohmagari said Virus spreads in Europe : Denmark , Estonia , Norway , Georgia , Greece , Romania and North Macedonia have all announced their first virus infections since Wednesday morning . 
The number of countries around the world that have reported cases is now nearly 50 . 
Cases rise in Italy : Italy has at least 400 infections -- the largest outbreak outside Asia . 
Many European countries are now implementing emergency measures , with Italy effectively placing 100,000 under quarantine with travel restrictions . 
Trump places VP in charge : US President Donald Trump has placed Vice President Mike Pence in charge of efforts to contain the spread of the virus in the United Sates . 
US health officials have warned the country may have had its first case of community transmission -- where the patient did not have " relevant travel history or exposure to another known patient . " 
Middle East borders closed : Iran now has at least 139 cases and 19 deaths . 
This week , the virus has spread across Middle Eastern nations , including Iraq , Kuwait and Bahrain , prompting travel restrictions and closed borders . 
More new cases outside China : For the first time in the outbreak , the number of new cases reported outside of China in a single day was larger than those reported inside the country , said the World Health Organization . 
China reported 412 newly confirmed cases yesterday , while 459 additional cases were reported outside of China , according to the WHO ’s daily report . 
