Two weeks after San Francisco issued the country ’s first shelter in place order for residents to prevent spread of the novel coronavirus , hospital emergency rooms throughout the region appear to be seeing the early effects . 
As of Monday morning , the city reported a total of 374 confirmed infections and six deaths from the virus . 
While the availability of testing is still much lower than officials would like , the modest daily count compared to other major urban centers may be an encouraging sign that the early aggressive action in the country ’s second most densely populated city is having its intended effect . 
" We have already made a difference in saving lives , " San Francisco Mayor London Breed said during a news conference Monday , though she and other officials repeatedly cautioned that US communities are still in the early stages of the battle against the virus . 
" We ’re watching the data very carefully , " added Dr Grant Colfax , the city ’s public health director , cautioning that the numbers could still explode rapidly . 
The situation in Los Angeles : But that sense of hope has not necessarily reached Los Angeles County , where hospitals are seeing a steady increase in the number of patients . 
Close to 2,500 people are confirmed to have been infected with the coronavirus in the county , with 342 new cases reported in the past two days . 
Across town at the Harbor UCLA Medical Center , doctors expressed more optimism in the early efforts . 
" We are cautiously hopeful that there has been a flattening of the steep curve because we have not seen the exponential rise of traffic coming in , " said Dr Anish Mahajan , the hospital ’s chief medical officer , referring to the rate of new transmissions . 
Harbor UCLA has seen a steady rise in coronavirus patients in recent days , increasing from 12 patients on Thursday to 35 on Monday . 
What the authorities say : At a news conference Monday , California Gov . 
Gavin Newsom was asked if officials were beginning to see a flattening of the curve of coronavirus patients . 
" We ’re in the middle of this . 
It would be too easy to say what has or has not worked , " Newsom said . 
" The stay home effort has bought us time to prepare . " 
California currently has at least 5,763 coronavirus cases , including 118 deaths . 
