Spain hoped its beaches would be the " safest holiday destination " in Europe this summer . 
Now , at the height of the tourist season , Barcelona and its surrounding areas are in the grip of a fresh coronavirus outbreak . 
Almost 3,000 new infections were found in the Catalonia region over the weekend . 
Local officials urged the roughly 3 million residents of the Barcelona area to stay home on Saturday , but stopped short of making that mandatory . 
The next day , thousands flocked to the beach and many left for their summer holiday homes . 
" It was not clear . 
People can go outside Barcelona , but the recommendation is also to stay at home . 
You can go to the beach but you have to wear a mask . 
But if you are in a terrace , you do not have to wear it , " said Barcelona resident Carolina Fernandez . 
Epidemiologists say Barcelona 's spike is a prime example of what happens when virus monitoring systems are neglected and government mandates are not clear . 
" Why is it happening ? 
Because the government did not introduce appropriate contact tracing , " epidemiologist Helen Legido Quiqley told CNN . 
By her estimate , Catalonia would need at least 2,000 contact tracers that should have been hired and trained during the previous lockdown . 
She warned that it would now be much more costly to impose a second lockdown . 
" We had three months to prepare and they have not done it , " she said , adding : Marti Angladan , a spokesperson for Catalonia ’s government , admitted that the region needs to double the number of contact tracers . 
" We should have doubled this figure . 
And we are trying to do so . 
But bear in mind , that we were readying ourselves for an outbreak at the end of October , September , " he told CNN . 
" [ This is ] much earlier than expected . 
We thought , we ’d been told by experts , that the high temperatures would slow down , would calm down the virus . " 
No such luck for Barcelona . 
The sunshine is not stopping the virus -- but it is still drawing in tourists . 
Stepping off a plane Monday , British visitor Graham Parker was nonplussed by news of the outbreak . 
" If you ’re going to catch it , you catch it here or in the UK , " he told CNN . 
" Just be careful , keep your distance , use face masks . " 
