President Trump repeated his belief that a coronavirus outbreak in China could subside when temperatures rise with the changing seasons , despite expert opinion that it ’s too early to make such a linkage . 
Speaking to US governors at the White House , Trump said the temperature issue arose last week in his telephone conversation with his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping . 
" That would be a good thing , " Trump went on . 
Earlier , Trump said " a lot of people think that goes away in April , with the heat . " 
More on this : Trump first raised his theory about coronavirus and warmer weather in a tweet last week . 
Afterward , infectious disease experts told CNN that it 's too early to say whether warmer temperatures would weaken the virus . 
" It would be reckless to assume that things will quiet down in spring and summer , " said Dr . Peter Hotez , dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at the Baylor College of Medicine in Texas . 
" We do not really understand the basis of seasonality , and of course we know we absolutely nothing about this particular virus , " Hotez said . 
" His hope is our hope , " said Dr . William Schaffner , an infectious disease specialist at Vanderbilt University Medical Center , referring to Trump 's tweets . 
" But we do not have knowledge that it will do that . " 
In his remarks at the White House , Trump said China was " doing a good job " containing the coronavirus , even as the disease spreads and the death toll rises . 
Yesterday alone , the coronavirus — which originated in Wuhan — killed 97 people . 
It has killed 910 people globally since the outbreak began , according to authorities . 
More than 40,000 people have been infected . 
The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has listed 398 people under investigation for the novel coronavirus in 37 states , according to an update posted to the agency 's website on Monday . 
Of them , 12 have tested positive , 318 negative and 68 are still pending . 
Trump touted those numbers on Monday , saying " many of them are in good shape now . " 
