The World Health Organization ( WHO ) warned on Saturday the coronavirus pandemic was likely to be " lengthy " after its emergency committee met to evaluate the crisis six months after sounding the international alarm . 
The committee " highlighted the anticipated lengthy duration of this Covid 19 pandemic " , the WHO said in a statement , and warned of the risk of " response fatigue " given the socio economic pressures on countries . 
The panel gathered on Friday for the fourth time since the coronavirus crisis began , half a year on from its 30 January declaration of a public health emergency of international concern ( PHEIC ) – the WHO ’s highest level of alarm . 
" WHO continues to assess the global risk level of Covid 19 to be very high , " said its latest statement . 
" The committee highlighted the anticipated lengthy duration of this Covid 19 pandemic , noting the importance of sustained community , national , regional , and global response efforts . " 
The coronavirus has killed at least 680,000 people and infected at least 17.6 million since the outbreak emerged in China last December , according to a tally from official sources compiled by AFP . 
Countries around the world have imposed strict lockdowns in a bid to control the spread of the respiratory disease , plunging economies into sharp contraction . 
The committee urged the WHO to provide nuanced , pragmatic guidance on Covid 19 reactions " to reduce the risk of response fatigue in the context of socio economic pressures " . 
The panel urged the WHO to support countries in preparing for the rollout of proven therapeutics and vaccines . 
The committee also urged the agency to accelerate research into the remaining " critical unknowns " of the virus , such as the animal source and potential animal reservoirs . 
It called for improved understanding of the epidemiology and severity of Covid 19 , including its long term health effects . 
The near six hour gathering was hosted at the WHO ’s headquarters in Geneva , with some participants joining via video link . 
The committee will reconvene in three months ’ time . 
Going into the meeting , WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the pandemic ’s effects would be long lasting . 
" It ’s sobering to think that six months ago , when you recommended I declare a PHEIC , there were less than 100 cases and no deaths outside China , " he said on Friday . 
" The pandemic is a once in a century health crisis , the effects of which will be felt for decades to come . " 
