Before coronavirus brought the world to its knees , 2020 was slated to be a crucial year for the European Union and China . 
At a showpiece summit in September , the two are set to take a significant step forward in their economic and strategic relationship . 
As things stand , German Chancellor Angela Merkel is due to gather EU leaders and China 's President Xi Jinping in the eastern German city of Leipzig on September 14 . 
But China 's response to Covid 19 has left a bitter taste in the mouths of European officials . 
From draconian clampdowns on its own citizens to accusations of spreading misinformation in Europe , this crisis has been a reminder that closer engagement with China comes with risks . 
Indeed , pulling China closer to European values on human rights , climate change and multilateralism is the sort of thing leaders ' legacies are made of . 
And while the Leipzig summit is far from a make or break moment in Europe 's relationship with China , this level of fanfare has a lot to live up to . 
However , there is a real sense in Brussels that the pandemic has led to a reset in European thinking on China . 
Blockmans is referring to a communique released by the EU Commission in March 2019 , in which it described China as " a systemic rival promoting alternative models of governance " . 
In the context of coronavirus , that Chinese model of government is concerning EU officials . 
" It 's all about seeing which [ political ] system is better at handling the virus . 
Is it a system that allows personal liberties ? 
Or is it single party autocracy where you can impose measures without worrying too much , " said one EU official working across external affairs . 
This lack of trust seems to be taking hold across Brussels . 
Over the weekend , the EU 's Commissioner for Foreign Affairs , Josep Borrell , said in an interview with France 's Le Journal du Dimanche that Europe had been " naïve " in its dealings with China . 
He went on to acknowledge that China has a " different understanding of the international order . " 
So , where does this all leave what was supposed to be the year where China and Europe finally got on the same page ? 
At the time of writing , very few believe that the Leipzig summit will be as Merkel and co . first imagined . 
On one hand , the EU 's calculation on China has not changed : It 's still desirable not to get squashed between the two great superpowers , China and America . 
On the other , recent history shows China to be an unreliable partner who divides opinion among EU member states . 
Sooner or later , Europe will have to weigh these two realities up and decide exactly how much that diplomatic independence from America is really worth . 
Read the full story here . 
