Moderna has finished accumulating data for a first analysis of its Covid 19 vaccine and expects to have an announcement on the vaccine ’s efficacy by the end of the month , according to a company statement . 
Pfizer announced Monday that its coronavirus vaccine is more than 90 % effective . 
How it works : Moderna is conducting a clinical trial of 30,000 participants , with half receiving the vaccine and half receiving a placebo , which is a shot of saline that does nothing . 
What they need : For Moderna ’s vaccine to be considered for authorization by the US Food and Drug Administration , at least 53 study participants need to become ill with Covid 19 . 
The trial hit that 53 mark Wednesday , but Moderna does not know if the participants who became ill received the vaccine or the placebo . 
What happens now : The company is preparing data to send to the trial ’s Data and Safety Monitoring Board , an independent panel of experts . 
That board will look to see how many of the participants who became ill received the vaccine and how many received the placebo . 
If a statistically significant number received the placebo , that means the vaccine is effective against the virus . 
Moderna thinks the board will report their efficacy results before the end of the month . 
Moderna expects that by the time the announcement is made , more than 53 participants will become ill with Covid 19 , since cases are rapidly rising in the US . 
Pfizer 's interim analysis looked at the first 94 confirmed cases of Covid 19 among more than 43,000 volunteers who got either two doses of the vaccine or a placebo . 
Russia 's Sputnik V vaccine interim analysis came after just 20 confirmed Covid 19 cases . 
Dr . Anthony Fauci said Wednesday that Moderna ’s vaccine could soon follow in Pfizer 's footsteps . 
" Moderna has an almost identical m RNA , " Fauci told Financial Times correspondent Hannah Kuchler . 
" We hope we 're going to see a similar kind of result from Moderna . 
If we do , then we 'll have two vaccines in play . " 
He said he would " really be surprised if we did not see a high degree of efficacy . " 
