In a global push to end violence against women , activists held rallies on Wednesday and world leaders called for action to stop abuse , which has worsened during the coronavirus pandemic . 
Protests from France to Ukraine were held on the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women to draw attention to the millions of women killed or abused every year by their partners and close relatives . 
Yet another by product of Covid 19 , domestic violence has risen dramatically this year world wide with calls to emergency services increasing especially during periods of lockdown and social isolation . 
Orange was selected by campaigners to denote the day because of its ability to symbolise a brighter future , free of violence . 
A number of EU buildings were lit up orange , while the Greek parliament in Athens illuminated with " no to violence " display . 
Greece , like so many countries , has reported a steep climb in incidences of women seeking help . 
In April alone , calls to the SOS hotline reporting domestic violence quadrupled . 
The Italian health ministry , citing data from national statistics agency ISTAT , said calls to domestic violence hotlines shot up during the coronavirus lockdown , registering a 75 % increase compared to the same period in 2019 . 
Together with Spanish prime minister Pedro Sánchez , Italian prime minister Giuseppe Conte signed a joint declaration vowing to accelerate measures to stamp out violence against women , calling it " an invisible pandemic " . 
In Turkey , where at least 234 women have been killed since the start of the year , riot police in Istanbul blocked a small group of demonstrators from marching to the city ’s iconic Taksim Square . 
The government has declared the square off bounds for demonstrations . 
Elsewhere in Istanbul , some 2,000 other women staged a peaceful demonstration calling on president Recep Tayyip Erdoğan ’s government to remain committed to a European treaty on combatting violence against women . 
UN agency UNAIDS said " evidence shows that the Covid 19 pandemic has resulted in significant increases in gender based violence in nearly all countries , " especially for women trapped at home with their abuser . 
" Men ’s violence against women is also a pandemic — one that pre dates the virus and will outlive it , " said Phumzile Mlambo Ngcuka , executive director of the UN Women agency . 
" Last year alone , 243 million women and girls experienced sexual or physical violence from their partner . 
This year , reports of increased domestic violence , cyberbullying , child marriages , sexual harassment and sexual violence have flooded in , " she said . 
