As many as 80 million babies worldwide are missing out on vaccines because of the coronavirus pandemic , the World Health Organization said Friday . 
The pandemic has disrupted vaccination programs in at least 68 countries , WHO , the global vaccine initiative Gavi , United Nations Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) and the Sabin Vaccine Institute said in a joint statement . 
They said 80 million children under the age of 1 were living in those countries . 
" We cannot exchange one deadly outbreak for another , " UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta Fore said at a news conference . 
WHO released new guidance to countries on how they can resume vaccination campaigns safely during the pandemic . 
Plus , fewer of the health workers who usually deliver vaccines can due restrictions on travel , the lack protective equipment and because they ’re busy fighting coronavirus , the groups said . 
" Disruption to immunization programs from the Covid 19 pandemic threatens to unwind decades of progress against vaccine preventable diseases like measles , " WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in a statement . 
Impacted programs : Measles immunization campaigns have been suspended in 27 countries , while efforts to vaccinate children against polio are paused in 38 countries , the groups said . 
" We cannot let our fight against one disease come at the expense of long term progress in our fight against other diseases , " Fore said . 
" We have effective vaccines against measles , polio and cholera . 
While circumstances may require us to temporarily pause some immunization efforts , these immunizations must restart as soon as possible . " 
WHO said late last year , that measles surged globally because of disruptions to vaccination campaigns . 
More than 140,000 people died as a result – most of them young children . 
Efforts to eradicate polio have been continually stymied by conflict and difficulties reaching certain areas . 
Polio also mainly affects very young children , and 1 in 200 cases result in irreversible paralysis , WHO says . 
Only 33 cases were reported in 2018 but WHO forecasts up to 200,000 cases of polio a year within a decade if the virus cannot be eradicated by vaccination . 
