Classroom interaction between a teacher and students could lead to Covid 19 transmission , according to a small study by US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention researchers published Monday in Emerging Infectious Diseases . 
The report details a case where a teacher infected with Covid 19 may have infected students after returning to the classroom while still experiencing symptoms . 
The teacher first had symptoms , including a headache , sore throat and fatigue , while traveling in Europe in late February . 
The teacher returned to school while still experiencing symptoms and taught 16 classes of 30 or less students . 
After the teacher ’s Covid 19 test came back positive on March 1 , all students were told to quarantine at home . 
Once the quarantine was over , 21 students from the teacher ’s classes took part in the research . 
The students had a median age of 17 . 
Ten of the teacher ’s classes were described as " interactive " classes , in which the teacher walked around and spoke directly with students . 
Out of five students who had been in " interactive " classes , two had antibody test results that suggested they had been infected . 
One of those students experienced symptoms for nine days , include muscle aches , runny nose and cough and the other student had no symptoms . 
Two other students from the five in the " interactive " classes had no serological evidence that suggested they had been infected in the past , but they had reported mild symptoms – one had fever and headache that lasted one day , and another had a runny nose that lasted one day . 
Of the 16 students who participated in the non interactive classes – where the teacher sat mostly in one location and had limited close interaction with students — seven reported symptoms , including sore throat , headache , runny nose and muscle pain . 
But antibody tests found no evidence of a previous Covid 19 infection . 
The authors note there are limitations to the research , including a low number of participants and the possibility that students may have been exposed to Covid 19 somewhere other than the classroom . 
Also , blood samples may have been collected too soon for students to have developed antibodies to the coronavirus . 
