White House coronavirus task force coordinator Dr . Deborah Birx on Tuesday provided some dire warnings for states that are in the task force defined " yellow zone " for cases and test positivity , which she said are different from outbreaks across the country earlier this year . 
On a call Tuesday with Vice President Mike Pence and several governors , she said there has been " significant improvement " in " red zone " states Florida , California , Texas , and Arizona following orders to close bars , decrease indoor dining , and require the use of masks . 
The task force defines its " red zone " states as more than 100 cases per 100,000 people and more than 10 % test positivity . 
But she said there are still rising cases and test positivity in other " red zone " states : Mississippi , Indiana , Tennessee , Virginia , Oklahoma , Georgia , Idaho , and Arkansas . 
Birx said " yellow zone " states , which the task force defines as having between 10 and 100 cases per 100,000 and 5-10 % test positivity , have had a similar profile to " red zone " states : " Starting with the 20 to 30 year olds presenting as a first wave . " 
She said the task force is working with governors and mayors in the following places : Colorado , the District of Columbia , Indiana , Iowa , Kansas , Kentucky , Minneapolis , Missouri , North Carolina , Nebraska , Ohio , Utah , Washington and Wisconsin . 
The task force , Birx said , is talking with these places " about increasing mitigation efforts now because if we wait until increased hospitalizations it is really way too late . 
Because what we are experiencing now is really different than March and April , it ’s very different from the outbreaks of May that was typically contained . 
This widespread community spread in the younger age group both rural and very urban and urban areas so by the time you see it up to 80-90 % of your counties already have more than 10 % . " 
Birx expressed concern for major metros like Chicago and Philadelphia , as well as California ’s Central Valley , and applauded Alabama Gov . 
Kay Ivey ’s mask mandate , which she said is having a " significant impact . " 
Pence reiterated that the administration does not want another closure -- something , he said , " We do not ever want to see again , " but pointed to studies that show that the use of masks , bar closures , limiting outdoor dining , and limiting social gatherings are having similar effect as sheltering in place earlier this year . 
He recommended governors in " yellow zone " states " take a hard look " at those four measures " whether it be on a county by county basis or a statewide basis . " 
" We ’ll support your decision , but I think your big message to these states that may be emerging is do not wait , " Pence said . 
