Rep . 
Louie Gohmert , a Texas Republican , has tested positive for coronavirus . 
Gohmert has frequently refused to wear a mask while at the Capitol during the pandemic . 
He has spent ample time on the House floor during votes speaking to aides and lawmakers — without a mask or social distancing . 
His office did not respond to multiple requests for comment . 
Gohmert had been scheduled to fly aboard Air Force One with President Trump to Midland , Texas , where he is fundraising and touring an oil rig . 
He tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday morning during a pre flight screening at the White House , a person familiar with the situation told CNN . 
Because of the positive test , Gohmert is not traveling with the President . 
A senior Republican aide told CNN the test results have caused issues on the Hill , with " a lot of staffers " ordered to get tests before they can go to meetings and resume activity . 
Some are sequestering in their offices until they can get tested . 
Gohmert ’s office notified Republican leaders , who notified House medical staff and the protocol kicked in for further notification , the GOP aide said . 
Politico first reported the news . 
Gohmert told CNN last month that he did not wear a mask because he had been tested and he did not yet have the virus . 
" But if I get it , you ’ll never see me without a mask , " he said . 
He is just one of several conservative Republicans who have pushed back on mask wearing , sometimes causing tension during committee meetings . 
During Tuesday ’s hearing with Attorney General Bill Barr , House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerry Nadler urged a handful of Republican members to keep their masks on . 
" I would remind Mr . Jordan , Mr . Biggs and Mr . Johnson to stop violating the rules of the committee , to stop violating the safety of the members of the committee , to stop holding themselves out as not caring by refusing to wear their masks , " Nadler said , referring to Reps . 
Jim Jordan of Ohio , Andy Biggs of Arizona , and Mike Johnson of Louisiana . 
" Is it permissible to drink a sip of coffee ? " 
Johnson countered . 
Gohmert was also present at the hearing . 
He was seen maskless outside the room near Barr at one point . 
The Justice Department told CNN Wednesday that Barr will get tested . 
In another hearing Wednesday , Rep . 
Zoe Lofgren interjected to remind members who are physically present that they are required to wear a mask . 
" He was a member who was unwilling to consistently wear a mask , " Lofgren said of Gohmert . 
" It ’s a reminder that this is very serious and if you ’re unwilling to wear a mask that covers your nose and your mouth , please do leave the room and we ’ll arrange for you to participate remotely . " 
Watch : 
