South Korea and Japan have deployed their respective militaries to assist medical staff and help with contact tracing . 
In Japan , nurses from the Self Defense Forces will assist local hospitals in Osaka and Hokkaido prefectures , as the country reported 1,518 new cases Monday -- bringing its total to 164,641 , including more than 2,395 deaths . 
Last week , Japan recorded its highest ever number of Covid 19 patients in intensive care , a situation Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga acknowledged was becoming " extremely alarming " as hospitals and medical staff faced being overwhelmed . 
Japan has called for an increase in indoor ventilation to reduce the chances of infection , but this is a hard ask in parts of the country that experience freezing temperatures throughout winter , a situation shared by South Korea . 
In South Korea , the military and police will help with contact tracing efforts , while testing centers will also extend their hours into the night and on weekends to encourage testing in the greater Seoul area . 
The country reported 594 cases from Monday -- all but 28 of which were local transmissions -- bringing its total caseload to 38,755 , including 552 deaths . 
At a briefing Monday , a South Korean health official warned the country was facing its " biggest crisis " since the beginning of the pandemic . 
Elsewhere in the region : Hong Kong is also experiencing a fourth wave of cases , forcing the cancellation of a planned travel bubble with Singapore as new restrictions are put in place . 
Taiwan , which went 200 days without a local transmission , also had a handful of new cases , along with a surge of imported infections , though those patients are all being quarantined . 
Australia and New Zealand have been among the best at responding to coronavirus , tightening and relaxing restrictions as case numbers have allowed -- thus enabling life to return to relative normality for extended periods . 
With Europe and the United States facing a deadly and miserable winter -- albeit with the slight hope of vaccine rollouts in the near future -- eyes will be on whether Asia continues to show a more effective way of managing the pandemic . 
Read the full analysis : 
