President Trump grew combative with reporters during his news conference Monday when they asked about his past comments on the coronavirus pandemic and testing in other countries . 
Trump stood by previous comments he made early on in the United States response to the coronavirus pandemic again saying that the virus " will go away . " 
" What do you say to Americans who are upset with you ? " asked CNN ’s Jim Acosta , who cited statements the President made in the past where he downplayed the crisis , including saying the virus would " go away . " 
" Is not that true it will go away ? " the President asked . 
In his previous comments , Trump said the virus would " just go away , " as the weather got warmer . 
" It ’s going to disappear , " Trump said in February . 
" One day , it ’s like a miracle , it will disappear " At his Rose Garden news conference Monday , the President implied that in his previous statements , he was simply trying to keep Americans calm . 
" I do want them to stay calm , " he said , " and we are doing a great job . " 
Trump then said if he wanted to cause panic , he could . 
" I could cause panic much better than even you . 
I would make you look like a minor league player , " he said to Acosta . 
When PBS News Hour ’s Yamiche Alcindor asked about how the United States is still not testing per capita as many people as other countries like South Korea , Trump said " it is very much on par . " 
" Look , per capita , we have areas — I know South Korea better than anybody . 
It is very tight . 
You know how big the city of Seoul is ? 
38 million people , bigger than anything we have . 
38 million people all tightly wound together . 
We have vast farmland , we have vast areas where they do not have a problem . 
In some cases they have no problem whatsoever . " 
He continued : " We have done more tests — I did not talk about per capita . 
We have done more tests , by far , than any country in the world . 
By far . 
Our testing is also better than any country in the world . " 
Trump was wrong about the population of Seoul — the city has population of less than 10 million people . 
Watch : 
