President Trump tweeted Wednesday his disagreement with the US Centers from Disease Control and Prevention 's guidelines for safely reopening schools , calling their recommendations " very tough " and " expensive . " 
He also threatened he " may cut off funding " to schools that do not reopen , though the bulk of public school funding comes from state and local governments . 
The CDC 's guidelines encourage hygiene , the use of cloth face coverings and staying home when appropriate . 
It also suggests staggered scheduling , a back up staffing plan , modified seating layouts to allow social distancing , physical barriers and closing of communal spaces . 
Trump , who has advocated for reopening states as cases surge , said Tuesday he would pressure governors to reopen schools this fall during a discussion with educators , administrators , students , and parents . 
" We hope that most schools are going to be open , " Trump said at a White House event , baselessly claiming that some places will want to stay closed " for political reasons . " 
" They think it 's going to be good for them politically , so they keep the schools closed , " the President alleged without evidence . 
" No way . " 
" We 're very much going to put pressure on governors and everybody else to open the schools , to get them open , " Trump said , who has been anxious to reopen America to kickstart the economy and otherwise move on from the pandemic , despite its resurgence . 
About school funding : Most funding for America 's schools comes from the state and local level — over 90 % , according to Education Secretary Betsy De Vos , but schools do get some targeted funding from the Department of Education . 
That federal funding often affects the nation 's most vulnerable students . 
But educators and administrators have called on the federal government to supplement funding for personal protective equipment and other resources , such as additional school buses , to reconfigure classrooms in order to safely reopen . 
Republicans in the Senate are planning to unveil a stimulus bill that includes federal spending to re open schools and childcare facilities . 
Democrats have also included proposals to get schools re opened in their stimulus proposals . 
Trump told Nextstar in an interview Tuesday that he had time to consider school reopening . 
" Well , we have a long time to think about the school stuff . 
Because , you know . 
But we want to have the schools open , " Trump said . 
" I would say that when we talk about the fall , that seems like a long time . 
It 's a long time . " 
But many school districts in the south , where coronavirus cases are rising , begin the school year in just a few short weeks . 
And while the President is hopeful the pandemic will improve over the next month , a trusted model from the University of Washington is forecasting an uptick in deaths this fall and increased its death toll projection to over 208,000 deaths by November . 
CNN 's Sara Murray , Kristen Holmes , Maegan Vazquez , Ben Tinker and Fredreka Schouten contributed to this report . 
WATCH ORANGE COUNTY , FLORIDA TEACHERS UNION PRESIDENT RESPOND : 
