The novel coronavirus has now infected more than 2.47 million people and killed at least 170,000 worldwide , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
The crisis is starting to abate in parts of Asia , such as Hong Kong , but continues to ramp up in the United States and other regions of the world . 
If you 're just joining us , here 's the latest : Trump says he 'll freeze immigration : The US President tweeted that he would sign an executive order temporarily suspending all immigration into the country . 
The White House declined to provide further information and the Department of Homeland Security did not respond to a request for comment . 
It 's not clear what mechanism Trump will use to suspend immigration , how long such a suspension could last or what effect this will have on the operation of US border crossings and on those who already hold green cards . 
UK PPE : Government minister Simon Clarke said the country will not run out of personal protective equipment , but conceded the " margins can be tight . " 
This comes after hospital chiefs around Britain warned that some stocks of PPE are " critically low . " 
Indian reporters infected : More than 50 journalists have tested positive for coronavirus in the Indian financial capital , Mumbai . 
They were covering the pandemic , leading press associations to call for greater protections for the media . 
Oil recovers : After the oil market crashed yesterday in the worst day on record , US oil prices are back in positive territory to trade at $ 1.65 a barrel . 
The pandemic has caused oil demand to drop so rapidly that the world is running out of room to store barrels . 
At the same time , Russia and Saudi Arabia flooded the world with excess supply . 
Pakistan spikes : Pakistan reported 796 new cases in the past day , marking the country 's biggest single day jump in cases so far . 
Hong Kong stays cautious : The semi autonomous Chinese city reported no new cases yesterday , raising hopes that the second wave seen in March could be over . 
But authorities are taking no chances , and extended social distancing rules for 14 more days . 
Jack Ma steps in : The founder of Alibaba and one of China 's richest men is donating millions of face masks and test kits to the World Health Organization to help fight the pandemic , he announced on social media . 
