Americans rank dead last -- by a long way -- among citizens of more than a dozen countries who were asked whether their nation is more united now than it was before the coronavirus pandemic , according to a survey released Thursday . 
And they come in a statistical joint last place with the British on whether their country has handled the pandemic well , the poll finds . 
In the United States , fewer than two in 10 people ( 18 % ) said the country is more united now . 
That 's a full 21 percentage points below the next lowest ranking countries , Germany and France , where just under four in 10 ( 39 % ) respondents expressed that opinion . 
Denmark had the highest percentage saying their country was more united now , with more than seven in 10 ( 72 % ) giving that answer . 
Results show partisan gap in US : As with so many questions these hyper partisan days , there 's a gigantic gap between Republican and Democratic views of whether the Trump administration has handled the pandemic well . 
Three quarters ( 76 % ) of Republicans and Republican leaning independents said the government has done a good job . 
Only one quarter ( 25 % ) of Democrats and Democratic leaning independents agree . 
The findings come from a Pew Research Center survey of 14 advanced economies in North America , Europe and Asia . 
The Washington , DC based think tank interviewed 14,276 adults by telephone from June 10 to August 3 . 
A clear majority of people across the 14 countries said their own nation had handled Covid 19 well : 73 % agreed , while 27 % disagreed . 
But in the United Kingdom and the United States , the figures were much lower : 46 % and 47 % respectively . 
They 're the only two countries where a minority of people said the government had done well . 
In every other country polled , most people said their government had done well , from Japan with 55 % up to Denmark with 95 % . 
The United States is not the only country where support for the government 's coronavirus response broke along partisan lines -- the Pew survey detected the same pattern in the UK and in Spain . 
Those results show it 's not a matter of whether you 're on the left or the right of the political spectrum that predicts whether you think your government has done well . 
The US and UK have right leaning governments , while Spain has a left leaning one . 
In each country , people with the same political bent as the government tend to say it 's done well in the crisis . 
Read the full story here . 
