Vice President Mike Pence called for Americans to remain patient during his remarks at a White House summit on the Covid 19 vaccine Tuesday , renewing calls for social distancing and mask wearing . 
Pence urged Americans to " save lives " by practicing good hygiene . 
" Wash your hands . 
Practice social distancing or wear a mask when it 's not possible or whenever local authorities indicate that it 's appropriate . 
The way that we got through the early days of this pandemic , " he said , adding later , " it 's the way we 'll see our way through the months ahead between now and when the coronavirus vaccine that will likely be approved this week will be widely available for every American . " 
Pence ’s remarks and tone were significantly different than that of President Trump , who spoke at the same event earlier in the day . 
Trump ’s speech was much more focused on taking credit and claiming victory for the development of a vaccine . 
When asked by a reporter about advice for Americans on avoiding the spread of Covid in the holiday season , Trump commented that " the vaccine was our goal . " 
The vice president also did something else Trump did not in his speech : he offered his sympathies to those who had lost loved ones to coronavirus . 
" Before I reflect on all the we 've heard today and the extraordinary professionalism and cooperation that you 've witnessed , " Pence said , " I want to extend my – my sympathies to the families that may be looking on at this very hour . 
Families that have lost loved ones over the course of this year . " 
" Even as we enter a time of great promise in this country , " he continued , " I want families that have lost loved ones , and those that are still struggling in the midst of this pandemic to know There 's not a day gone by , that you have not been on the hearts of all of us working at every level . 
And , and we will never forget your families , or your loved ones , as we hasten the day that we put this pandemic in the past . " 
