India on Monday recorded 61,267 new cases of coronavirus -- the lowest single day increase since August 25 , according to a CNN tally of Indian Health Ministry figures . 
As of Tuesday , India has reported more than 6.6 million cases of Covid 19 and more than 103,000 deaths . 
There has been a decline in daily reported cases in October , figures showed . 
For two consecutive weeks , the Indian Ministry of Health has reported fewer than 1 million active cases . 
The ministry attributes the decline in active cases to early detection thanks to widespread testing . 
India 's testing : On Monday , India conducted 1,089,403 coronavirus tests , bringing the total tests conducted to more than 81 million , according to the Indian Council of Medical Research . 
The Health Ministry said Tuesday that ICMR has scaled up testing and India 's positivity rate continues to be steadily maintained below 10 % . 
The World Health Organization has said that a good benchmark for whether a country is testing adequately is to have at least 10 negative cases for every one positive case confirmed . 
Recovery rate : The central government has also outlined a standard treatment protocol that has increased the national recovery rate , the Health Ministry said Monday . 
The recovery rate is currently at 84.34 % . 
In India , patients with mild and moderate symptoms are considered no longer active after 10 days of symptom onset if they meet certain conditions . 
A test to confirm that they no longer have the virus is not required . 
Severe cases can only be discharged after one negative coronavirus test . 
Schools reopening : The Education Ministry on Monday issued guidelines for schools to reopen from Oct . 15 , emphasizing the need for health and safety measures and social distancing . 
States have the discretion to reopen schools based on their local pandemic situation . 
The western state of Maharashtra and the capital city of Delhi -- two of the hardest hit areas -- have decided to keep schools shut until at least Oct . 31 . 
States will be allowed to decide timelines for any potential reopening of schools or continuing online learning and are expected to announce decisions over the coming week . 
