Hundreds of thousands of holidaymakers ’ plans have been plunged into chaos after the government confirmed that France would be removed from the UK ’s travel corridor list following a surge in Covid 19 cases . 
The move , which will mean arrivals into the UK from France will have to quarantine for 14 days on their return or face a fine , will come into effect at 4am on Saturday leaving a window of little more than 28 hours for travellers to get home if they want to escape the measures . 
The UK government will also remove the Netherlands , Monaco , Malta , Turks & amp ; 
Caicos and Aruba from the list , the transport secretary Grant Shapps confirmed . 
Travellers arriving in the UK from those destinations from that time will also be required to self isolate for 14 days . 
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office has updated its travel advice for those countries , now advising against all but essential travel based on the current assessment of Covid 19 risks . 
Data shows we need to remove France , the Netherlands , Monaco , Malta , Turks & amp ; 
Caicos & amp ; 
Aruba from our list of # coronavirus Travel Corridors to keep infection rates DOWN . 
If you arrive in the UK after 0400 Saturday from these destinations , you will need to self isolate for 14 days . 
The decision comes after the Joint Biosecurity Centre and Public Health England indicated a significant change in Covid 19 risk in all six destinations . 
Department for Transport officials said that data from France shows that over the past week there has been a 66 % increase in newly reported cases and a 52 % increase in weekly incidence rate per 100,000 population , indicating a sharp rise in Covid 19 . 
There has been a consistent increase in newly reported cases in the Netherlands over the past four weeks , with a 52 % increase in newly reported cases between 7 and 13 August . 
Over the past week , there has been a 273 % increase in newly reported cases in Turks & amp ; 
Caicos , a 1,106 % increase in newly reported cases in Aruba , and Malta has had a 105 % increase . 
