Five more Spanish regions , including Madrid , are closing their borders ahead of the All Saints ’ Day long weekend to try to halt a surge in coronavirus infections . 
Spanish families traditionally visit the graves of loved ones on the 1 November holiday to leave flowers . 
As this year ’s holiday falls on a Sunday , Monday has been declared a holiday to create a three day weekend . 
About 6 million people travel to other parts of Spain during the All Saints ’ Day holiday and as a result the regional government of Madrid plans to close the region ’s borders from Friday until 2 November , said the head of the region ’s government , Isabel Díaz Ayuso . 
" We are aware that we must continue to reduce social contacts , " she told a joint news conference with the heads of the neighbouring regions of Castilla and León and Castilla La Mancha who said they would shut their borders until 9 November , a bank holiday in Madrid . 
Separately , the coastal regions of Murcia in the southeast and Andalusia in the southwest , popular destinations for residents of inland cities like Madrid during long weekends , said they would also shut their borders from Friday until 9 November . 
The move means no one will be able to enter or leave the regions during this period except for essential reasons such as seeking medical care or going to work . 
" The pandemic is growing exponentially , " said the leader of the northwestern Castilla and Leon region , Alfonso Fernández Mañueco . 
" We have to adopt measures , drastic measures which at the same time are proportional . " 
Three of Spain ’s 17 regions - Navarra , La Rioja and the Basque Country - have already closed their borders earlier this month . 
Since exiting a strict national lockdown in June , coronavirus cases in Spain have soared , with thousands of infections diagnosed every day . 
Hospitalisations , though lower than their March April peak , are also on the rise . 
Spain last week became the first EU nation to surpass 1 million confirmed Covid 19 infections , with the virus claiming more than 35,000 lives . 
