A host of professional Santas have received video call training to prepare them for a socially distanced Christmas . 
The training comes ahead of the launch of a new app , Santa HQ , which will allow children to speak with Father Christmas without needing to visit a traditional grotto . 
Student Santas met in London on Tuesday for technical training for the service , which is a collaborative project between the Ministry of Fun Santa School and the digital agency Prism . 
" A lot of work has gone into this launch today , because what we ’re having to do is create an alternative to the Christmas grotto , " James Lovell , the director of the Ministry of Fun Santa School , told the PA news agency . 
Last year we had over 1,000 booking for Santa ’s grottos all over the country , this year we ’ve got about a tenth of that . 
Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales helped launch the Santa HQ app and attended the Santa training session . 
Lovell said aside from the one on one calls with St Nick , the service will also provide a 32 day " Christmas adventure " with Santa ’s elves from 25 November . 
Each day children will be able to take part in an activity with the elves , including joke telling , arts and crafts , and making a recipe . 
" There ’s some background story to that where one elf is learning how to be an elf , " added Lovell . 
" He ’s new and he wants to maybe accompany Father Christmas on his sleigh on Christmas Eve , so we may find out at the end whether he manages it or not . " 
One of the Santas told PA : Every year is a busy year ... but you know what , we self isolate anywhere . 
Father Christmas self isolates for 11 months because we ’re up in the snow near the North Pole , so it ’s not made any difference to us really . 
And all the reindeer when they ’re on the sleigh they ’re at least two metres apart . 
But you know , this year especially all the boys and girls around the world ... they deserve something very special and that is what Santa HQ is all about . 
Prices for the Santa HQ service will vary between £ 10 and £ 30 depending on features . 
