As coronavirus cases continue to rise in Wuhan and wider Hubei province , several countries are taking action to repatriate their citizens in the affected areas . 
Countries that have launched evacuations : The US : A plane carrying about 240 Americans , including diplomats and their families , has departed Wuhan and is en route to Alaska , where it will refuel before arriving early Wednesday in Ontario , California . 
Japan : 206 Japanese citizens were evacuated from Wuhan and arrived in Tokyo Wednesday morning local time . 
All those on board have been quarantined , and those with symptoms will be taken to a medical center for treatment . 
About 450 more Japanese citizens have not yet left Wuhan . 
Countries planning for evacuations : Australia : Prime Minister Scott Morrison said the government would evacuate " all Australians out of the Hubei province ... focusing on the young , especially infants and the elderly . " 
There are more than 600 Australian citizens in the Hubei , according to CNN affiliate Nine News . 
New Zealand : The New Zealand and Australian governments have discussed a " joint ANZAC ( Australia and New Zealand Army Corps ) assisted departure " of their citizens from Wuhan , though specific evacuation details are still being worked out . 
India : The Indian government has begun the process of " preparing to evacuate " Indian nationals affected by situation in Hubei Province , a spokesman confirmed Wednesday . 
South Korea : Four charter planes will evacuate South Korean citizens from Wuhan , said a government spokesperson today . 
Almost 700 South Korean citizens have applied to take the flight out . 
France : A plane will fly French citizens back from Wuhan to France sometime this week , said the French Health Minister on said Sunday . 
There are around 800 French citizens in Wuhan . 
United Kingdom : The UK is " looking at all the options " to help Britons trapped in Wuhan , said the UK Home Secretary after being asked about the possibility of evacuation flights . 
