T coronavirus outbreak began in Wuhan , China , and has now spread across Asia and the rest of the world . 
Today , Chinese authorities continue to try and contain the virus ' spread , while other countries evacuate their citizens from Wuhan . 
All the while , researchers are racing to learn more about the virus and develop a vaccine . 
Here are the latest updates : The numbers : In China , 132 people have died and there are 5,974 confirmed cases -- surpassing the number of Chinese SARS cases during the deadly 2003 outbreak . 
Globally , there are 6,056 coronavirus cases . 
It 's everywhere in China : Tibet , previously the last uninfected region , announced its first suspected case today . 
This suggests the coronavirus is no longer just in dense urban areas , but has spread to remote , rural corners of the country . 
The number of cases in China jumped by almost 1,500 from Tuesday , a more than 30 % increase . 
Global spread : 83 cases outside mainland China have been reported in over a dozen countries . 
While most of these cases have a direct link to Wuhan , one case confirmed yesterday was a German man who had not been to China -- indicating human to human transmission . 
Evacuations : The US and Japan have already retrieved some of their citizens from Wuhan . 
Other countries like Australia , France , India , and South Korea are also preparing evacuation plans for hundreds of their citizens in the city . 
So what 's being done ? 
And what can I do ? 
Chinese response : Chinese officials have effectively quarantined an estimated 60 million people by placing numerous cities under partial or full lockdown . 
They are now working to assist overstretched hospitals , coordinate with other countries on evacuations , and build an entirely new hospital in Wuhan within a week . 
Medical breakthrough : There 's no vaccine and scientists still do not know a lot about the virus -- but there has been progress . 
Research teams in Hong Kong and Australia have successfully grown the coronavirus from a patient sample , which will provide international laboratories with crucial information . 
How to protect yourself : Take the same preventative measures you would during flu season . 
Cover your mouth and nose when you cough or sneeze , and avoid close contact with anyone showing those symptoms . 
Wash your hands often with soap and water , wear a surgical mask , and disinfect surfaces you touch . 
This post has been updated to reflect the status of a suspected case in Tibet . 
