Researchers led by the World Health Organization would like to go back to a wholesale food market in Wuhan in China to follow up initial cases that emerged in the city and investigate how the virus probably first spread from bats . 
Peter Ben Embarek , a WHO expert in animal diseases , said that the team would like to re interview early cases and find infected workers who may have " important information " on where they may have picked up the virus . 
" There is nothing to indicate that it would be man made , " he said , reiterating the view of the WHO and of most scientists . 
Ben Embarek said : Before December 2019 we do not really know what happened , we do not know how the virus jumped from its most probable natural environment in the bat population over to humans . 
And it ’s that bit of the history that we need to reconstruct . 
The WHO has had assurances from China that an international field trip will be arranged as soon as possible , its top emergency expert Mike Ryan has said . 
Chinese researchers are carrying out epidemiological studies into early cases and conditions at the Wuhan market while the international team of 10 experts is to carry out phase 2 studies . 
The United States and , to a lesser extent , some European delegations have raised questions about the delay and sought a timeline for the international experts ’ visit , diplomats say . 
Ben Embarek said " it ’s not too late " for the probe . 
What we would like to do with the international team and counterparts in China is to go back in the Wuhan environment , re interview in depth the initial cases , try to find other cases that were not detected at that time and try to see if we can push back the history of the first cases . 
Investigations would look into " everything that went in and out of that market at that time and try to find out where these animals and food products came from , " he said . 
They would look for commonalities among market workers who got severely ill in December , and whether they were infected in the countryside or a farming environment in southern China or " perhaps even outside China " , he said . 
