New York Gov . 
Andrew Cuomo outlined new guidelines that nursing homes and hospitals must follow in order to protect the elderly . 
Cuomo said nursing homes are " ground zero " for Covid 19 . 
" They are the vulnerable population in the vulnerable location . 
Today we 're taking additional steps to protect seniors in nursing homes , " he said at a news briefing on Sunday . 
Here are the new safety measures nursing homes must follow : Visitation is restricted , except for end of life visits . 
Personal protective equipment is required for staff when interacting with residents who are suspected to have coronavirus or have tested positive . 
Face masks are required when staff interacts with all residents . 
All staff must be checked for coronavirus symptoms , including temperature checks every 12 hours and diagnostic tests every two weeks . 
Facilities must notify all residents and family members within 24 hours of a positive coronavirus test or death . 
The facilities must separate residents and staff in the event of an outbreak . 
Cuomo said facilities must transfer any residents that they cannot take care of . 
" If a nursing home cannot take care of a person , we have facilities that can , " he said . 
" If they have a Covid positive person and they ca not treat a Covid positive person , they must transfer the person or call the state Department of Health and the state Department of Health will transfer that person . " 
Cuomo said hospitals will also not be allowed to discharge patients to nursing homes unless they test negative for Covid 19 . 
" We 're just not going to send a person who is positive to a nursing home after hospital visit . 
Period , " Cuomo said . 
" If there 's any issue , the resident must be referred to the department of health which will find alternative care . " 
If nursing homes do not follow these guidelines , Cuomo said they will lose their license . 
" That 's harsh . 
No . 
Harsh is having a nursing home resident who does not get the appropriate care . 
That 's what 's harsh . 
Having someone 's parent or mother or brother where they 're in a facility . 
They ca not get a visitor . 
They 're isolated . 
They feel alone and they 're not getting the appropriate care . 
That is what is harsh , " he said . 
