The US president Donald Trump ’s lawyer Rudy Giuliani on Tuesday said he is feeling better after contracting Covid 19 and expects to leave the hospital on Wednesday . 
The 76 year old former New York City mayor , who is spearheading Trump ’s flagging effort to overturn the president ’s election loss to Joe Biden , said he began to feel unusually tired on Friday . 
By Sunday , when his diagnosis was announced , Giuliani said he was showing other " mild symptoms " but that currently he has no fever and only a small cough . 
" I think they are going to let me out tomorrow morning , " Giuliani said in an interview with WABC Radio in New York . 
He was at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington , two sources familiar with the situation said on Sunday . 
Giuliani plans to attend a virtual hearing this week with Georgia lawmakers , another source familiar with the matter , speaking on condition of anonymity , said on Tuesday . 
With Trump ’s legal effort so far failing to convince any court of the president ’s claim that widespread fraud cost him the election , Giuliani has been meeting with state officials in a long shot bid to persuade them to overturn the election results . 
State and federal officials have repeatedly said there is no evidence of fraud on any significant scale . 
In Georgia , state lawmakers are due to hold a virtual meeting on Thursday to discuss election issues , following a hearing last week in which Giuliani urged the state ’s lawmakers to intervene to overturn Biden ’s victory in the state . 
Giuliani made similar pleas last week in Michigan and Arizona . 
After news broke on Sunday of Giuliani ’s test result , the Arizona state legislature said it would close both chambers this week out of caution " for recent cases and concerns relating to Covid 19 . " 
Giuliani met with about a dozen Republican lawmakers there last week . 
In his radio interview , Giuliani said he had tested negative just before his trip to the three states . 
He also confirmed that Jenna Ellis , an attorney with whom he has worked side by side on Trump ’s legal challenges , also had contracted the coronavirus . 
