As European authorities battle to control further waves of the pandemic , Covid 19 infections are rising across the continent . 
Here are the latest developments : France : French health authorities are warning of a strong increase in coronavirus circulation , specifically among young adults . 
On Monday , its health ministry said 3.6 % of tests for Covid 19 came back positive in the week of August 15-21 , compared to 1.4 % at the start of the summer . 
France has recorded 244,854 cases and 30,528 deaths , including 1,955 cases and 15 deaths in the past 24 hours , Monday figures showed . 
Meanwhile , nearly one third ( 30 % ) of vacationers tested at a nudist village in southern France 's Cap d 'Agde municipality have tested positive , according to local health authorities . 
Occitanie Regional Health Authorities conducted three days of testing last week in Cap d 'Agde , a locality known for nudist beaches and resorts The two first rounds of testing found 95 people positive among 490 people tested , and additional tests are being analyzed . 
Authorities report 50 additional positive cases among vacationers who went through Cap d 'Agde and were tested upon their return home . 
Germany : A further 1,278 new cases of coronavirus have been confirmed in Germany since Monday , the Robert Koch Institute ( RKI ) revealed Tuesday , bringing the total number of cases nationwide to 234,853 . 
According to the RKI , the number of cases in Germany has " risen markedly " in recent weeks and demonstrates a " very concerning " trend in the national infection rate . 
On Monday , Germany issued a travel warning for Paris and the Cote d 'Azur region of southeastern France due to high levels of coronavirus infection . 
Travelers returning from these regions will be required to get a free coronavirus PCR test upon arrival in Germany and could be obligated to quarantine for 14 days , the government said . 
Spain : Spain has recorded 19,382 new coronavirus cases since Friday , according to health ministry data on Monday . 
Some of the 17 Spanish regions have decided to tighten safety measures as the number of infections continues to climb . 
Madrid 's regional government Justice Secretary , Enrique López , asked citizens on Monday to " avoid unnecessary gatherings . " 
Catalan President , Quim Torra , announced that Catalonia is banning gatherings of over 10 people , given that " 70 % of the contagions happen during social gatherings , " adding that " the next three weeks are decisive . " 
UK : A potential coronavirus vaccine being jointly developed by the University of Oxford and Astra Zeneca could be put before regulators by the end of this year , the director of the Oxford Vaccine Group said Tuesday . 
" It is just possible that , if the cases accrue rapidly in the clinical trials , we could have that data before regulators this year , and then there would be a process that they go through in order to make a full assessment of the data , " Professor Andrew Pollard said . 
However , speaking to BBC Radio 4 , Pollard cautioned that the process could take longer depending on how much data scientists are able to gather . 
The Scottish government announced on Tuesday that students over the age of 12 will be advised to wear face coverings at school . 
This comes after an outbreak at a school in Dundee , which saw 22 people test positive for Covid 19 . 
Italy : Italy registered 953 new Covid 19 cases in the past 24 hours , according to the latest data from the Ministry of Civil Protection on Monday . 
In the past week the country has seen an increase of over 6,000 cases , the highest since May 11-17 . 
It has had a total of 260,298 cases and 35,441 deaths . 
Belarus : Belarus will become the first country to receive doses of a potential coronavirus vaccine being developed in Russia as part of a new agreement reached by President Vladimir Putin and Alexander Lukashenko on Monday . 
According to the state owned Belarusian Telegraph Agency ( Be ITA ) , the two leaders agreed that Belarusian citizens will participate in the third stage of Russian vaccine trials , on a voluntary basis . 
