United Kingdom Prime Minister Boris Johnson has been discharged from the hospital , a Downing Street spokesperson said . 
" The PM has been discharged from hospital to continue his recovery , at Chequers , " the spokesperson said . 
" On the advice of his medical team , the PM will not be immediately returning to work . 
He wishes to thank everybody at St . Thomas ’ for the brilliant care he has received . " 
The spokesperson added : " All of his thoughts are with those affected by this illness . " 
Johnson 's fiancée , Carrie Symonds , thanked the British National Health Service after a " very dark " week , she said Sunday in a series of tweets following his discharge from the hospital . 
Symonds said , " I cannot thank our magnificent NHS enough . 
The staff at St Thomas ’ Hospital have been incredible . 
I will never , ever be able to repay you and I will never stop thanking you . " 
Johnson issued a statement Saturday thanking the National Health Service staff at St . Thomas ' Hospital following his treatment for coronavirus , saying " I ca not thank them enough . 
I owe them my life , " according to the UK Press Association . 
This is the first known statement from the Prime Minister since he entered hospital last Sunday night . 
Some context : Johnson announced he tested positive for the novel coronavirus on March 27 . 
He said he was experiencing " mild symptoms " and would continue leading the country , while self isolating in his apartment in Downing Street . 
But 10 days later , 10 Downing Street announced the 55 year old was not getting better and was taken to St . Thomas ' Hospital in London . 
He was moved to an intensive care unit ( ICU ) the next day after his condition deteriorated . 
Johnson spent three nights in intensive care and received " standard oxygen treatment , " according to his spokesman , but did not require mechanical or invasive ventilation . 
He was moved out of the ICU on Thursday night . 
On Friday , a spokesperson said the Prime Minister was " able to do short walks " in between periods of rest and waved his thanks to staff . 
