There was a time when Boris Johnson claimed his government was following the science at every step of its plan for dealing with coronavirus . 
But as the number of confirmed Covid 19 cases in the UK soars once more , and the country braces for a long , miserable winter , the British Prime Minister appears to be at odds with those same advisers he once placed front and center of the pandemic response . 
His Chief Medical Officer on Monday night poured a bucket of cold water over his latest plans to tackle a worrying upturn in the spread of coronavirus in the UK . 
And on Tuesday he faced further criticism , after it emerged that his top scientific advisers recommended a significantly tougher package of measures three weeks ago . Johnson , it seems , is trapped by his bitterly divided Conservative Party -- faced down by the hawks , such as finance minister Rishi Sunak , who want to keep the economy as open as possible and doves , who think tough measures now would be better in the longer run . 
His attempts to walk that tricky line were evident in a news conference on Monday evening . 
Instead of introducing a short , sharp " circuit breaker " lockdown , advocated by experts who want to disrupt the current rate of transmission immediately and buy the country time before a difficult winter , Johnson outlined a three tiered system of lockdown measures , to be applied locally according to the number of reported cases in a given area . 
Even the top tier of these restrictions is a far cry from the hard UK lockdown in March . 
Children will still attend schools , restaurants will remain open and it will be up to local authorities to decide whether other parts of the hospitality sector close . 
It was clear that some of Johnson 's senior scientific and medical advisers were not convinced . 
Standing next to the Prime Minister was his Chief Medical Officer , Chris Whitty , who said he was " not confident " that even the restrictions envisaged for highest tier " would be enough to get on top " of the virus spread . 
Read the full story here : 
