If you 're just joining us , here are the latest developments since our last catch up . 
Japan declares state of emergency : PM Shinzo Abe has officially declared a state of emergency until May 6 across seven virus hit prefectures , including Tokyo . 
" Basic economic activity " will still continue , with public transport and supermarkets remaining open . 
People are urged to stay at home and not make unnecessary trips . 
Spain ’s coronavirus case and death rate is increasing again : The rate of new infections and deaths from the novel coronavirus in Spain has increased after a week long decline . 
Some 743 people have died in the past 24 hours – a 5.7 % increase in total deaths . 
Italy reports health worker deaths : Ninety four doctors have died of coronavirus , the Italian Association of Doctors said Tuesday . 
Twenty six nurses have also died after contracting the virus , according to the Italian Federation of Nurses . 
Concern in Britain : UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson remains in intensive care with coronavirus and has been treated with oxygen , said Michael Gove , Minister for the Cabinet Office . 
He is not on a ventilator , according to Gove , who himself is self isolating after a member of his household displayed coronavirus symptoms . 
US braces for worst : State and health officials have warned that this week may be the hardest yet , and that the coming weeks will be crucial in stemming the virus ' spread . 
Nearly 11,000 people have died , and funeral homes have been overwhelmed . 
Outdoor exercise restricted as France ’s outbreak worsens : The mayor of Paris has said that from Wednesday , people wishing to exercise outdoors in the French capital will have to do so before 10 a.m . or after 7 p.m . local time . 
France has not yet reached the peak of its coronavirus outbreak , according to health minister Olivier Veran , who said " we are still in a worsening phase of the epidemic . " 
Milestone in China : The country where the pandemic began recorded no new deaths yesterday for the first time since January . 
There were also no locally transmitted infections found yesterday ; all new cases were imported from abroad . 
And tomorrow , the epicenter city of Wuhan will finally lift its lockdown after three months . 
India relaxes drug export : India has partially lifted export restrictions on the drug hydroxychloroquine , after imposing a blanket export ban on the drug on Saturday -- just as President Donald Trump requested more to be released to the US . 
New Zealand controversy : The health minister was demoted and called himself " an idiot " after breaking nationwide lockdown rules by driving to the beach with his family . 
