Daniel Green is still hobbled by the severe viral infection that struck him in March and left him coughing up blood . 
Three months ago , the 28 year old postdoctoral research associate from Newcastle , United Kingdom , was on the road with friends in a band as they toured venues in the French Alps . 
He came down with Covid 19 symptoms , and like many coronavirus patients , spent weeks in bed . 
Unlike other people , however , Green 's life has not returned to normal . 
" Since then it 's been on and off with extreme tiredness and fatigue , " he said . 
Every day he has brain fog , difficulty concentrating and problems with short term memory that make reading , writing and speaking harder . 
" Breathing has been very difficult , " he said . 
" I do not feel like I have my full breath capacity . 
If I go for a walk for one minute , I 'll be really exhausted . " 
The profound mark the disease has made on Green 's life is not uncommon . 
" About 80 % are going to experience a mild or asymptomatic version of Covid . 
It 's the other 20 % that we 're worried about , " said Dr . Luis Ostrosky Zeichner , a professor of medicine at the University of Texas Mc Govern Medical School . 
" One out of five patients are going to get a severe form of the disease . " 
Some young people are not getting better : As case counts among young people rise , Green and others in their 20s want to share stories of the wreckage Covid 19 has wrought in their lives . 
Those patients can potentially experience permanent lung damage , including scarring and reduced lower respiratory capacity . 
" The thing that we do not yet fully appreciate is what happens when you get infected , and you get serious disease , and you recover ? " said Dr . Anthony Fauci , the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , at the BIO International Convention in June . 
" We do not know the extent of full recovery or partial recovery , so there 's a lot we need to learn , " he said . 
Young people , who are less likely to die from coronavirus than their grandparents , are an important target of those lessons . 
Whether they contracted the virus among the snow capped peaks of the Alps or in the heart of the outbreak in New York City 's borough of Queens , some 20 somethings are getting sick from Covid 19 . 
And staying sick . 
Their stories are a warning from millennials to millennials : Do not play the odds with coronavirus because this disease could permanently damage your body . 
Read the rest of the piece here : 
