The Trump administration has prevented at least 140 travelers from entering the United States as it attempts to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus . 
Fourteen foreign nationals were turned away at US airports and 126 people were refused entry at land ports from February 2 to 12 , according to data provided to CNN by the Department of Homeland Security . 
Airlines are responsible for removing passengers who are denied entry to the US out of the country . 
Additionally , 34 travelers were stopped at pre clearance locations — airports where US officials conduct screening before passengers board US bound flights . 
More on this : On February 2 , the US began implementing stringent travel restrictions that include temporarily denying entry to foreign nationals who visited China in the 14 days prior to their arrival in the US . 
US citizens returning from China are also subject to health screenings and potential quarantine . 
Those US citizens and others traveling to the US from China are being funneled through 11 airports where authorities can conduct additional screening and transfer people for quarantine if needed . 
Last summer , as the Ebola virus threat was emerging from the Democratic Republic of Congo , DHS ' Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Office implemented plans to provide enhanced airport screening at multiple airports throughout the United States . 
The department 's chief medical officer is housed within the CWMD office . 
The department retrofitted its Ebola response plan to deal with the coronavirus outbreak , according to DHS . 
Customs officers referred 43,263 air travelers for potential secondary screening since the efforts began on February 2 . 
Of those referred at airports , 23,836 required secondary screening , according to the data . 
Personnel has been added to deal with the virus as well . 
Around 95 CWMD contractors are employed per day across the 11 airports to conduct medical screenings . 
As of February 12 , 19 DHS personnel were assigned to the US Department of Health and Human Services operations center . 
There are also 150-200 Customs and Border Protection officers assisting with screening daily at the 11 airports . 
