After three weeks of holding daily press conferences online due to public health concerns , China 's Ministry of Foreign Affairs re opened its press briefing hall to reporters today -- with new access rules and a new spokesman . 
Journalists attending the briefing are required to fill out a health declaration form in advance . 
After going through security check , reporters have their names cross checked against an approved list by a ministry staffer as another measures their body temperature . 
Masks have be worn inside the venue at all time . 
These procedures are nothing new as the country continues to battle the spread of the deadly virus -- but journalists were surprised to see a fresh face behind the podium : Zhao Lijian , the ministry 's newest deputy spokesman . 
" Before seeing his face , you 've probably already heard his voice , " said Hua Chunying , the ministry 's long time spokeswoman , as she introduced her lieutenant -- in a nod to Zhao 's unusual high profile on Twitter , the US based social media platform that 's long been banned in China . 
A Twitter personality : A prolific poster on Twitter with more than 240,000 followers , Zhao has gained fame and attracted controversies for his firebrand diplomacy -- in stark contrast to most of his colleagues who tend to stick to jargon filled scripts -- by arguing with western politicians and blocking critics of the Chinese government . 
Making his debut in a dark gray suit and turquoise tie , Zhao the real life spokesman sounded far more subdued and scripted than his online persona . 
Wall Street Journal expulsion : Mostly reading from prepared responses , he only appeared irked and dismissive when dogged foreign journalists asked him about three Beijing based Wall Street Journal reporters -- expelled last week after their newspaper published an opinion piece related to the outbreak with a headline that Beijing deems " racially discriminatory " -- for the tenth time . 
" You should not keep badgering me on this issue , " Zhao said , waving off suggestions that China is stifling press freedom by banishing seasoned foreign correspondents who played no role in the publication of the commentary . 
" You should ask the Wall Street Journal why they still refuse to apologize publicly . " 
