There are no specific definitions for classifying a second wave or a second peak of coronavirus , Dr . Mike Ryan , executive director of the World Health Organization ’s Health Emergencies Program , said during a briefing on Friday . 
Ryan did explain some differences between both : A second wave , Ryan said , is when " a number of cases rises and it falls down to a very low or detectable level . " 
A second peak is a different concept — one that " many countries are facing now , " Ryan said . 
" When they 've come off the peak of the first wave , but they have not reduced the disease down and they 're in a steady state where they 're struggling to reduce the incidence of the disease , and then they get a second peak , " Ryan said . 
During a second peak , community transmission is still occurring , he added . 
" You may have a second peak within your first wave . 
And then you may have a second wave . 
It 's not either or , " Ryan warned . 
" The second peak depends on how good , how strong and how effective the control you have over the disease at this present moment . 
If you start to experience a second peak , then the chances are that the disease is spreading in a way that you have not got full control over that , " Ryan said . 
The impact of testing : Ryan added that sometimes when countries get better at testing , their number of cases often goes up . 
To gauge if this is part of a second wave or peak , Ryan said look for these markers : " It 's very important at that time to look at things like hospitalizations and deaths . 
If you start to see hospitalizations going up , that 's not because of testing . " 
Equally important , Ryan said countries should be watching for clusters in places where transmission is very low . 
" When you 're down to a very low level of disease , and you see a cluster , you have to jump on the cluster . 
You have to take the cluster seriously , because you want to avoid that second peak , you want to avoid going back into community transmission . " 
