Digestive symptoms may be more common in coronavirus infections than previously thought , with a small study released Wednesday finding that symptoms such as diarrhea and a loss of appetite were the " chief complaint " in nearly half of more than 200 confirmed COVID 19 cases . 
The research suggests that , during the coronavirus pandemic , clinicians may need to look beyond the major Covid 19 symptoms identified by US health officials : fever , cough and shortness of breath . 
That ’s because many patients infected with coronavirus , according to the study , may initially present to the hospital with diarrhea , anorexia and vomiting – not necessarily with respiratory symptoms . 
Even when researchers excluded anorexia – a loss of appetite or aversion to food – they found that 1 in 5 coronavirus patients still came to the hospital with diarrhea , vomiting or abdominal pain . 
In more severe coronavirus cases , digestive symptoms also became more pronounced , and patients with digestive problems were less likely to be discharged , according to the study . 
The research , published in the American Journal of Gastroenterology , looked at 204 confirmed coronavirus cases in Hubei province , China . 
A small number of those patients – seven people – had digestive problems , but no respiratory symptoms at all . 
While the researchers cautioned that larger studies would be needed to confirm their findings , they warned that " if clinicians solely monitor for respiratory symptoms to establish case definitions for COVID 19 , they may miss cases initially presenting with extra pulmonary symptoms , or the disease may not be diagnosed later until respiratory symptoms emerge . " 
That might explain why many health care workers in China were infected in the early days of the coronavirus outbreak , the researchers said . 
" Although this was related to improper protection of medical personnel early on , " they wrote , " it may also have resulted from failing to consider COVID 19 in the face of atypical extra pulmonary symptoms , especially those with digestive symptoms at the beginning of the outbreak . " 
