Twitter appended a label to a tweet from President Trump for " making misleading health claims that could potentially dissuade people from participation in voting . " 
Trump claimed in posts on Twitter and Facebook early Sunday morning that mail drop boxes for voting " are not Covid sanitized " as well as claiming they are a " voter security disaster . " 
Five hours after Trump sent the tweet , Twitter took action , saying , " We placed a public interest notice on this Tweet for violating our Civic Integrity Policy for making misleading health claims that could potentially dissuade people from participation in voting . " 
Now accompanying the Tweet is the full security notice : " This Tweet violated the Twitter Rules about civic and election integrity . 
However , Twitter has determined that it may be in the public ’s interest for the Tweet to remain accessible . " 
Trump ’s tweet puzzled at least one scientist who noted that people are unlikely to catch the virus from touching such a box . 
People can just wash their hands or use hand sanitizer after touching any objects , including mail drop boxes , noted Erin Bromage , an associate professor of biology at the University of Massachusetts , Dartmouth , and a CNN contributor . 
" You can completely minimize the risk of infection by sanitizing your hands after you drop in your ballot , " Bromage told CNN . 
What the science says : The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has said that the main way Covid 19 spreads is from person to person and that while there is a possibility of infection from someone touching a surface and then their mouth , nose or potentially their eyes , this is not the main way the virus spreads . 
The larger risk of transmission comes when people are crowded into indoor spaces together . 
" So while there is a theoretical possibility for viral transfer from a voting drop box , in reality the chances of this occurring and it leads to an infection are low , " Bromage said . 
Although the exact same message was posted to the President ’s Facebook account , the company has not taken specific action on the post by Sunday afternoon . 
Facebook says it affixes links to voter information to posts from politicians about the election — a policy which could cause more confusion , as CNN has previously reported . 
Unlike Twitter , Facebook does not fact check politicians . 
CNN has reached out to Facebook for comment . 
Read the tweet : 
