The numbers : Johns Hopkins University , which is tracking cases reported by the World Health Organization and additional sources , puts the total number of cases worldwide at more than 218,800 , with at least 8,800 deaths . 
China reports no new domestic cases : For the first time , the country where the coronavirus pandemic began has announced no new locally transmitted infections -- a pivotal moment in the battle to contain Covid 19 . 
All 34 new cases reported yesterday were imported from overseas . 
US deaths : 80 % of coronavirus related deaths in the US occurred in adults aged 65 and older , according to a report from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . 
The US has at least 8,736 cases and 149 deaths . 
UK ramps up measures : From Friday , schools across the UK will close until further notice . 
Northern Ireland ’s schools will close starting Monday . 
Dozens of London Underground stations will close after the government advised to stop non essential social contact . 
An additional 10,000 military personnel will be placed " at a higher readiness " to support public services as part of a new coronavirus support force . 
The only continent without cases : US researchers and workers stationed in the Antarctic were screened for coronavirus prior to their deployment . 
About 100 people are in the Antarctic from the US and other countries . 
World under lockdown : Millions across the world have been put under strict restrictions on travel and movement . 
The European Union has closed its borders for 30 days . 
And many US counties have issued " shelter in place " orders . 
Latest restrictions : Australia and New Zealand are both banning entry to foreign citizens and non residents . 
Economy : The European Central Bank said it would spend $ 818 billion buying government debt and private securities to fight the coronavirus crash . 
South Korea is supplying 50 trillion won ( $ 38.9 billion ) in emergency funding to support small business . 
Flights suspended : Australian airline Qantas and its subsidiary Jetstar will suspend scheduled international flights from late March until at least the end of May . Air Canada will gradually suspend the majority of its international and US trans border flights by March 31 . 
Ryanair said it expects that " most if not all " its flights will be grounded by March 24 . 
There were 12,094 flight cancellations worldwide on Wednesday . 
