Rep . 
Alexandria Ocasio Cortez , the high profile freshman from New York , is leaving open the option of forcing House members to return to Washington to cast a vote on the $ 2 trillion stimulus package barreling through Congress . 
Ocasio Cortez has expressed her frustration with reports of the stimulus deal , suggesting it 's too tilted towards corporations . 
The deal was reached between senators from both parties -- including the senior Democratic senator from her state , Chuck Schumer , and the White House . 
And on Wednesday , Ocasio Cortez told CNN she is not ruling out asking for a recorded vote , which would force lawmakers to return to Washington and vote in person , something that most members of Congress are eager to avoid amid the coronavirus pandemic . 
Ocasio Cortez said she had not seen the final bill text yet , " but I 'm open " to asking for a recorded vote " if necessary . " 
Asked if she had concerns about forcing lawmakers to return , which would be an unpopular move , she said : " of course . " 
But she added : " With the health risks of travel , there is no easy choice here . 
But essential workers are showing up and putting their health at risk every day , and if the final text of a bill is set up to hurt them , it may be something we have to do . " 
The move would upset the plans of Speaker Nancy Pelosi , who told Democrats on a Wednesday conference call that she prefers that the Senate measure is adopted by the House by unanimous consent , according to a source on the call . 
Any member could object to unanimous approval . 
Another option : Allowing the House to vote by voice , which would allow the presiding officer to determine which side has the most votes . 
Yet members can ask for a recorded , roll call vote , which would force the House members vote in person . 
Pelosi told her caucus on a conference call that a House vote would not occur Wednesday , according to a source on the call . 
And House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer said he would give lawmakers 24 hours notice before scheduling a vote . 
Pelosi also said she 's in contact with the House physician 's office about what precautions must be taken in case members are forced to return to Washington , a source on the call said . 
A recorded vote could delay final passage for days . 
