Researchers are learning more about how Covid 19 affects children , and a new study finds that among a group of children and adolescents in New York who were hospitalized with the disease , about a fifth — 22 % — had obesity . 
The study , published in the journal The Lancet on Wednesday , suggests that having obesity could put a child at an increased risk of getting severely ill with Covid 19 , the disease caused by the novel coronavirus . 
" Obesity was the most significant factor associated with mechanical ventilation in children 2 years and older , " the researchers added . 
" Contrary to some previous reports , infants seemed largely spared severe manifestations . " 
More on the study : The study included data on 50 young people , ages 21 and younger , who were diagnosed with Covid 19 between March 1 and April 15 and hospitalized for at least a day or longer . 
The data , which came from the patients ' electronic medical records , showed that about half of the patients — 52 % — had an adult family member or was living with someone with symptoms associated with Covid 19 . 
None of the patients had a history of international travel around the time they were diagnosed . 
Most of the patients — 80 % — had a fever , and 64 % had some respiratory symptoms , but three of the patients only experienced gastrointestinal problems , the researchers found . 
Nine of the patients , or 18 % of them , needed mechanical ventilation and one patient died . 
Overall , the researchers found that obesity was significantly associated with needing mechanical ventilation among children ages 2 or older . 
Among the patients who required mechanical ventilation , six of them — 67 % — had obesity . 
About the study : The study had some limitations , including that the group of patients included in the data was small and half of the patients were Hispanic . 
The researchers noted that the hospital serves a predominantly Hispanic community . 
So more research is needed to determine whether similar findings would emerge among a more diverse group of patients . 
Yet overall , " studies such as this one emphasize that certain groups of children may be disproportionally affected . 
In this study , 50 % were Hispanic , " Dr . Jason Newland of the Washington University School of Medicine in St Louis , and Dr . Kristina Bryant of the University of Louisville in Kentucky , co wrote in an editorial that accompanied the new study . 
" As the Covid 19 pandemic has spread and created adversity for many people physically , emotionally , and economically , the groups most affected have been those of color , " Newland and Bryant wrote . 
" Going forward , multicenter collaborative studies are needed to define the infectious and postinfectious sequelae of Covid 19 in children in communities across the US , including rural communities , and in all racial and ethnic groups . 
We also need to understand the association of the pandemic with adverse health outcomes in children beyond the consequences of viral infection , " they wrote . 
The researchers noted that on May 15 , " the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported a precipitous drop in the ordering and administration of pediatric vaccines . 
Are outbreaks of vaccine preventable diseases on the horizon ? 
That could be the next important chapter of the evolving Covid 19 story . " 
