More information and research is needed to understand the difference in efficacies of Astra Zeneca vaccine dose schedules and whether a new trial is needed to check the efficacy of the lower dosage , World Health Organization officials said during a news briefing in Geneva on Friday . 
There is only so much that can be included in a release , she said , and it needs to be reviewed in terms of the data and questions asked about the data that may come up during the review . 
" It ’s difficult to weigh in on this , " O ’Brien said . 
" I think what we can emphasize , though , is that from what we understand about the press release , there is certainly something interesting that has been observed , but there are many reasons that could underlie the differences that were observed . " 
More information , including evaluations of the immune response in the trial , is needed , she said . 
Dr . Soumya Swaminathan , WHO ’s chief scientist , agreed with O ’Brien , saying that everything that is known is from the news release , and it appears that less than 3,000 people were given the half dose , then full dose of the vaccine . 
It is also understood that no one over the age of 55 was in that group . 
The group given two full doses were larger numbers and had different age groups . 
" It ’s very hard to compare these two groups and that I would say the numbers are still small to really come to any definitive conclusions , " she said . 
" Now , of course , the advantage of using a smaller dose , particularly if you ’re getting higher efficacy , is great and you can save on the vaccine and at the same time you are benefitting from higher efficacy , but I think it would be speculation at this point , " she said . 
Swaminathan said that they have heard that Astra Zeneca would like to do a full trial of the half dose full dose schedule , " if we are to explore this hypothesis of having perhaps a better efficacy with a lower dose , then it would need a trial . " 
Remember : The US Food and Drug Administration requires a threshold of at least 50 % efficacy . 
It is not clear if the FDA will authorize emergency use however . 
Astra Zeneca has not yet tested its half strength dose in the US either . 
But on Thursday , a spokesperson for the company told CNN their aim was to include the half strength dose regimen into their US trials , which currently has around 10,000 participants . 
