While modeling studies have suggested that around 60 to 70 % of the population would need to be immune to Covid 19 in order to achieve herd immunity , targeted vaccination may be needed to defeat the virus , said Dr . Mike Ryan , executive director of the World Health Organization ’s health emergencies program . 
Ryan said it may take " some very clever vaccination strategies " that target people in society who are more likely to carry , transmit and spread the virus . 
Herd immunity is built around the idea that disease spreads evenly through a community and that everyone ’s absolute risk of being infected is about the same , Ryan explained during a news briefing in Geneva on Friday . 
But the virus does not spread evenly . 
If there are lots of protected people surrounding those who are unprotected then " effectively , there ’s a barrier . 
There ’s a firewall around some who are not vaccinated , a firewall of vaccinated people , and therefore you can achieve control and eradication , sometimes , without vaccinating everyone , " he said . 
While an overall number may be important in terms of policy , Ryan said it will be important to be strategic about which groups are targeted for vaccination . 
" It may be much more important to target certain sections of the community than it will be to necessarily target some others who may not be participating in transmission as much , " he said . 
And the vaccine may not be a miraculous solution to the pandemic , he cautioned . 
" I do not think anyone can promise eradication of this virus until we understand much more about the vaccine , and much more about how the vaccines work in the real world and until we understand much more about the details of transmission of this virus . " 
Katherine O ’Brien , director of Immunization , Vaccines and Biologicals at WHO , added to Ryan ’s point with the example of measles . 
Last year was a terrible year for measles outbreaks globally , she said . 
" Many of those outbreaks were happening in countries that had very high measles vaccine coverage , " she said . 
" But it was not about the whole country ’s coverage that was important , it was about the sub communities , the sub national coverage . " 
