The novel coronavirus lingers for as long as three weeks in the bodies of patients with severe disease , Chinese researchers reported Tuesday . 
The virus can be found deep in the lungs and in the stool of patients , and the sicker they are , the longer it stays , the team at a hospital in China ’s Zhejiang province reported . 
But the virus was found in the urine of patients less than half the time , and rarely in the blood at first . 
Their report provides another piece of evidence about the pattern of disease in Covid 19 patients . 
It was published in the BMJ . 
Unlike many recently released studies about the coronavirus , this one has gone through peer review , which means other experts have reviewed the findings . 
The team tested 96 patients treated in their hospital for Covid 19 between January and March . 
They tested samples from the nose and throat , from deeper in the respiratory system , in the blood , stool and urine . 
They wanted to see how long people had virus in their systems and whether it was likely to spread in various ways . 
The findings support other studies showing that the virus could spread in stool from infected people . 
In general , the sicker people were , the longer the virus could be detected . 
That could be important for doctors to know , so they can predict which patients will fare better , and , perhaps , how long they may remain infectious to others . 
" The median duration of virus in respiratory samples was 18 days , " they wrote . 
More on this : An earlier Chinese study showed that people without symptoms had just as much virus in their noses as people who had Covid 19 symptoms -- something that indicated people who are not sick could be just as likely to spread virus as people who are . 
The team in Zhejiang found that sicker people had more virus deeper in their respiratory tracts , however . 
They also found differences between men and women with Covid 19 . 
" In this study , we found that the duration of virus was significantly longer in men than in women , " they wrote . 
