CNN boarded a Tuesday afternoon train from Shanghai to Wuhan , the original epicenter of the novel coronavirus outbreak which has now infected more than 2.5 million people worldwide . 
The eight cars were mostly full , with train attendants checking passengers ’ temperatures twice during the 4 hour high speed journey . 
Foreigners faced additional questioning onboard : Where are you originally from ? 
How long have you been in China ? 
May I please check your passport to verify your date of entry into the country ? 
With the local epidemic contained , Chinese officials are now concerned with a rise in imported cases . 
The train stations in Wuhan were shuttered for more than two months beginning from January 23 . 
Now when you arrive in Wuhan , most passengers are able to walk off the train and exit the railway station freely . 
However , security in white protective suits once again single out those who appear to be foreign . 
The screeners look through passports and ask for other official documentation to prove how long you ’ve been in the country . 
Passengers unable to provide such documents will be subject to forced government quarantine for a minimum of 14 days , according to the screeners . 
On the streets , Wuhan still appears to be awakening from its 76 day lockdown . 
When you enter a Wuhan hotel , there ’s another screening . 
The hotel staff ask to see each guest ’s updated city QR code -- a color coded digital bar code that cities use for tracing potential exposures of the virus -- to verify you ’re clean to enter . 
In addition to taking the temperature of guests , they also : Provide a sanitation mat for shoes . 
Use a pesticide like bottle to spray sanitizer on clothing worn by guests and their luggage . 
Inside the elevator , there are " stand here " stickers on the floor so as to keep guests separated to the four corners . 
There are even tissues and a trashcan so that no one presses a button with their bare finger . 
Throughout the hotel , there are sanitation stations every few feet . 
The measures may seem extreme , but with more than 11 million people , Wuhan is a city larger than New York City that is still shell shocked from its devastating outbreak , and trying to navigate the new normal that follows a 76 day halting of life . 
Watch : 
