The novel coronavirus has now infected more than 2.56 million people and killed at least 177,500 worldwide , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
Here 's what you may have missed if you 're just tuning in : Missouri is suing China : In what could be the first lawsuit filed by a US state against China , Missouri Attorney General Eric Schmitt filed a lawsuit Tuesday against the Chinese government over the loss of life and economic consequences in Missouri from the coronavirus , according to a statement from Schmitt ’s office . 
The lawsuit was filed against the Chinese government , Chinese Communist Party and other Chinese institutions accusing the government of suppressing information , arresting whistleblowers and denying the " contagious nature " of Covid 19 , leading to severe consequences in Missouri . 
Pope prays for Europe : Pope Francis prayed for European unity during early morning mass from the chapel of his residence on Wednesday . 
His words come ahead of an EU Council meeting Thursday to discuss a recovery package for the economic crisis the bloc is experiencing due to the pandemic . 
Another cruise ship cluster : Japan has confirmed that 33 additional crew members onboard the Costa Atlantica cruise ship , which is docked in Nagasaki prefecture , have tested positive for Covid 19 . 
The ship , operated by Italian cruise liner Costa Crociere , has been docked in Japan since March for repairs with 623 crew members . 
No passengers are currently onboard the ship . 
Ai Weiwei on coronavirus : The Chinese artist and dissident said Beijing 's alleged selective handing of information early on provided a " chance for the virus to spread . " 
However , understanding China 's motivations is as important to Ai as the alleged cover up , or the suggestion that the country 's infection numbers and fatalities have been under reported . 
More concerns about winter : The director of South Korea 's CDC believes that it is likely the country will see a second wave of the pandemic in autumn or winter " unless herd immunity is achieved through natural spread or through vaccines . " 
Her comments follow similar warnings from the director of the US CDC . 
