Days after declaring that his authority over the states is total , President Trump threatened Wednesday to apply a never used provision of the US Constitution to allow him to adjourn the US Congress and push through many of his nominees who typically require Senate confirmation . 
Trump said there were 129 nominees " stuck in the Senate because of partisan obstruction . " 
Trump ’s argument seemed to be that many of these vacancies needed to be filled to assist with the coronavirus response , including the Director of National Intelligence , two members of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors , an assistant secretary of the Treasury Department and an Undersecretary of Agriculture . 
The President argued that since the Senate has left until May 4 , " the Constitution provides a mechanism for the President to fill positions in such circumstances . 
The recess appointment , it ’s called . 
The Senate ’s practice of gaveling into so called pro forma sessions where no one is even there has prevented me from using the Constitutional authority we ’re given , " Trump said , calling on the Senate to formally adjourn . 
The decision to stay away from Washington until May 4 was made , and announced , by Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell , a Kentucky Republican and close Trump ally . 
A Mc Connell spokesman said Trump and Mc Connell spoke about the issue today . 
" The Leader pledged to find ways to confirm nominees considered mission critical to the Covid 19 pandemic , but under Senate rules that will take consent from Leader Schumer . " 
That last point is an important one . 
Mc Connell , who is careful with his words , appears to be saying any solution to the confirmation issue will require Democratic consent . 
The Constitution allows a president to fill temporary appointments during a recess , without congressional approval . 
But lawmakers in both parties have sought to thwart certain appointments over the last decade by never technically shutting down the Senate . 
When then President Barack Obama attempted to make recess appointments during pro forma sessions in 2014 , the US Supreme Court ruled " that the Recess Appointment Clause does not give the President the constitutional authority to make the appointments here at issue . " 
Justice Stephen Breyer said , " We hold that the Senate is in session , and not in recess , when the Senate says that it is in session . 
However , tonight Trump said he may use powers granted to the executive branch in order to get Congress to return to Washington to fill vacancies and vote on relief aid . 
The Constitution says the President " may , on extraordinary Occasions , convene both Houses , or either of them , and in Case of Disagreement between them , with Respect to the Time of Adjournment , he may adjourn them to such Time as he shall think proper . " 
The Court did not rule on that clause , as it was never invoked by the Obama administration or any prior administration . 
Given the authority has never been invoked before , it ’s murky as to what would define " disagreement " in this case . 
Both chambers would technically need to adjourn to clear the way for recess appointments , and the Democratic led House is exceedingly unlikely to hold a vote to adjourn . 
That means Mc Connell would likely have to bring senators back to Washington to vote to adjourn in order to create the " disagreement " cited in the Constitution that would provide the grounds for Trump to act . 
The Senate has been out of Washington out of concern over the safety of senators due to the pandemic . 
Trump , as he sought to explain his consideration of the action , took special note of Michael Pack , the President ’s choice to lead the Broadcasting Board of Governors , whose organization does not hold a clear role in the federal government ’s coronavirus health or economic response . 
Trump specifically cited his nomination to head the board of Voice of America as a particular grievance in not getting appointed , and continued to attack the news organization . 
" He ’s been stuck in committee for two years , preventing us from managing the Voice of America , very important . 
And if you ’ve heard what ’s coming out of the Voice of America , it ’s disgusting . 
The things they say are disgusting toward our country , " Trump said of Pack . 
Trump did not explain how the nominee to be CEO of the US Agency for Global Media would enhance federal efforts to counter the pandemic . 
But he reiterated his threat to adjourn both chambers of Congress several times . 
" If they do not approve it , we ’re gonna go this route , " Trump said . 
" We are going to do something that will be something I prefer not doing . " 
