The British prime minister Boris Johnson has played down the prospect of a second national coronavirus lockdown , saying he did not want to use it any more than Britain ’s Trident nuclear deterrent . 
Johnson said the authorities were getting better at identifying and isolating local outbreaks , although it was important that the power to order national action was held in reserve . 
" I ca not abandon that tool any more than I would abandon a nuclear deterrent . 
But it is like a nuclear deterrent , I certainly do not want to use it . 
And nor do I think we will be in that position again , " he told the Sunday Telegraph . 
His comments could lead to further tensions between ministers and their scientific experts after the chief scientific adviser , Sir Patrick Vallance , warned on Friday there was " a risk " that national measures could be needed as winter approaches . 
Announcing another easing of lockdown restrictions in England , Johnson on Friday said he hoped there could be a " significant return to normality " in time for Christmas . 
At the same time , he said the government had given local authorities new powers to close specific premises , shut outdoor spaces and cancel events . 
Johnson told the Telegraph : " It ’s not just that we ’re getting much better at spotting the disease and isolating it locally , but we understand far more which groups it affects , how it works , how it ’s transmitted , so the possibility of different types of segmentation , of enhanced shielding for particular groups , is now there . 
" We ’re genuinely able now to look at what ’s happening in much closer to real time , to isolate outbreaks and to address them on the spot , and to work with local authorities to contain the problem locally and regionally if we have to . " 
As he approaches his first anniversary in office , Johnson insisted his agenda for domestic reform and " levelling up " the economy would not be blown off course by the pandemic . 
" We want to be a transformative government , because there ’s a massive opportunity in this country to do things differently and to do things better , " he said . 
" We ’ve seen that really exemplified in what happened with coronavirus . " 
The official coronavirus death toll in the UK stands currently at 45,053 , the highest in Europe and the third highest worldwide . 
The Office for National Statistics has recorded 64,500 excess deaths in the country during the pandemic , suggesting the real number of fatalities is likely higher than the official tally . 
