Arrests and fines for breaking the UK ’s coronavirus lockdown laws in London have disproportionately affected black people , according to an analysis released Wednesday by the city 's Metropolitan Police Service ( MPS ) . 
While 12 % of London ’s population is black , according to 2018 Office for National Statistics data referenced in the report , 26 % of Covid 19 Fixed Penalty Notices were given to black people and 31 % of those whose arrests included breaching coronavirus legislation were black . 
The Met Police report acknowledges there are " some differences in the use of Covid 19 related enforcement in relation to gender , age and race , when compared to the resident population . " 
" Crime is also not proportionate , with different crimes affecting different groups , the root causes of which are complex , " the report adds . 
The report also notes the " street population " is different to official residential population data " which is only updated once every 10 years , " referencing population information gathered by census . 
More than 70 % of fines have been given to young people between the ages of 18 and 34 , and almost all fines and arrests have been of men . 
The report also noted there was a " strong correlation to hot weather and holiday periods contributing to people being out and breaching the legislation in the earlier part of lock down . " 
In a statement alongside the report , the Met Police noted the policing approach had been " to help explain the new laws and encourage Londoners to play their part in adhering to them " and said this had caused a " low number " of arrests and fines " in comparison to the approximate nine million population of London . " 
There was a total of 973 fixed penalty notices between March 27 and May 14 in London . 
There were also 711 arrests in that period where an individual was arrested primarily for a separate criminal offence and then also arrested for a breach of Covid 19 legislation , and 36 arrests were solely for breaching coronavirus legislation . 
