An official investigation has found that a " hard lockdown " of nine public housing towers in Melbourne , Australia " breached human rights , " according to a report tabled in Victoria state parliament on Thursday . 
The report from the Victorian Ombudsman , the official investigator into government complaints , found that the " timing of the lockdown of North Melbourne and Flemington public housing towers on July 4 was not based on direct health advice and violated Victorian human rights laws . " 
The hard lockdown impacted around 3,000 people in nine public housing towers in Australia 's second largest city . 
These residents were not allowed to leave their homes for any reason due to Covid 19 outbreaks in the densely populated buildings . 
The hard lockdown orders came from Victorian state Premier Daniel Andrews . 
In her probe into the restrictions , Victorian Ombudsman , Deborah Glass found that senior health officials agreed on the morning of Saturday , July 4 that the towers should be locked down to control the outbreak . 
However , she noted that the senior health officials anticipated " a next day start to allow planning for food supplies and other logistics . " 
But Andrews held a media conference at 4 p.m . that day and announced an immediate lockdown , Glass said in the report . 
" Many residents knew nothing of the lockdown or the reason for it when large numbers of police appeared on their estate that afternoon , " Glass said . 
She added that her investigation found that " initially there was chaos . 
Some people were without food and medicines . " 
Glass added that the lockdown was lifted at eight of the nine towers after five days . 
But residents at the remaining tower , 33 Alfred St . , where infection rates were highest , were detained for another nine days . 
Some residents in that tower waited more than a week to be allowed outside under supervision for fresh air , Glass noted in her report . 
" The rushed lockdown was not compatible with the residents ' human rights , including their right to humane treatment when deprived of liberty , " she added . 
The Ombudsman recommended the Victorian Government apologize to the residents , acknowledging the " impact of their immediate detention on their health and wellbeing " . 
" In my opinion , based on the evidence gathered by the investigation , the action appeared to be contrary to the law , " Glass said . 
The Victorian Ombudsman has no legal power . 
