Canada has ordered more Covid 19 vaccine doses per capita than any other country - at least 194m and up to 414m doses for its population of 38 million . 
With limited manufacturing capacity , six of the vaccines the country has ordered will have to be imported and the first are unlikely to arrive before early 2021 , while a candidate from Quebec ’s Medicago is likely at least six months from approval . 
Canada has announced purchase deals with Moderna , Pfizer , Novavax , Johnson & amp ; 
Johnson , Sanofi SA with Glaxo Smith Kline , Astra Zeneca , and Medicago . 
In the unlikely event all seven are approved , Canada could buy enough doses to vaccinate the country more than five times over . 
The vaccines will be distributed free through the provincial health services . 
Canadian officials have not given a precise timeline for deliveries , but said they expect to receive a combined six million doses of Moderna and Pfizer ’s vaccines by the end of March 2021 . 
Prime minister Justin Trudeau warned Canadians on Tuesday that manufacturers are likely to provide their own countries with vaccines first . 
" Countries like the United States , Germany and the UK do have domestic pharmaceutical facilities , which is why they are obviously going to prioritise helping their citizens first , " he said . 
Michael Mullette , managing director of Moderna ’s Canadian unit , said timing of shipments will depend in part on which countries have approved its vaccine , noting that Canada has been working to speed up the regulatory process . 
" Canada is certainly one of the first countries to have an agreement with us , and will be serviced very quickly , " he said . 
Canada announced a deal with Moderna on 5 August . 
The EU finalised a supply deal with Moderna on Tuesday . 
Health Canada said last week it could approve one or more vaccine early in the first quarter of 2021 . 
According to preliminary guidance published by the federal government in early November , more vulnerable people will be prioritised for vaccination . 
They would include those at high risk of severe illness or death from Covid 19 , such at the elderly . 
Others likely to be in the early waves of inoculations are healthcare workers , people providing essential services such as workers at food processing plants and grocery store staff , and other people whose living or working conditions put them at elevated risk of infection , " and where infection could have disproportionate consequences , including Indigenous communities . " 
