The EU is planning bold measures to boost its access to drugs , from sidestepping patent rights in emergencies to offering incentives for companies to shift production to Europe , according to documents published on Wednesday . 
The possible moves are meant to tackle the chronic shortages of medicines that have dogged the bloc for years and have become more serious since the Covid 19 pandemic and its associated trade disruptions and drug export bans . 
The European Commission wants faster procedures during crises to produce generic versions of drugs in EU states without the consent of patent holders , an EU document says . 
So called compulsory licensing is allowed under World Trade Organization ( WTO ) rules in emergencies as a waiver of normal regulations and could be applied during the Covid 19 pandemic . 
" The Commission sees the need to ensure that effective systems for issuing compulsory licences are in place , to be used as a means of last resort and a safety net , when all other efforts to make IP ( intellectual property ) available have failed , " the first of Wednesday ’s documents said . 
Ironically , the proposal is part of an EU action plan on intellectual property that is mostly aimed at strengthening the protection of EU companies ’ patents against foreign actors . 
" Compulsory licensing is not an effective policy tool to create access and puts at risk any incentive to invest in medical innovation at a time when citizens across Europe , across the world , are looking to the life science community to find the answers to the coronavirus crisis , " EFPIA , the body representing the largest players in the European pharmaceutical industry , said in a statement . 
In the first months of the COVID 19 pandemic , lawmakers and activists had urged the EU to use the WTO waiver to gain access to potential vaccines and drugs against the coronavirus , which have mostly been developed outside the 27 nation bloc . 
The EU initially struggled to order large volumes of the antiviral drug remdesivir , which some studies have shown to be effective against Covid 19 , because nearly all stocks of the drug produced by Gilead had been ordered by the US . 
Though the EU executive has so far refused to invoke the WTO waiver and has struck multibillion euro deals with drugmakers to secure Covid 19 shots and therapeutics , the pandemic has led to a reconsideration of existing procedures that largely fall under the remit of national governments in the bloc . 
