There is great concern about the spread of the novel coronavirus in countries outside China , with Iran reporting a spike in numbers and deaths , and other Middle Eastern countries reporting their first cases . 
South Korea has also seen a huge uptick in cases , with over 340 now confirmed nationwide . 
Meanwhile , the World Health Organization 's director general has said the window of opportunity to control the outbreak is " narrowing . " 
What you need to know : The numbers : Confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus in mainland China increased by 397 on Friday to reach a total of 76,288 . 
Another 109 deaths were recorded in China on Friday , bringing its total death toll to 2,345 , according to China ’s National Health Commission . 
The global death toll stands at 2,360 . 
Changing the tally : Officials in Hubei province , the epicenter of the novel coronavirus outbreak , have banned the practice of reducing the number of already confirmed cases . 
It also mandated that all previously counted cases stand as part of the total confirmed tally . 
The vast majority of cases and deaths in China have been recorded in Hubei . 
Crisis in South Korea : Cases in the Asian country have surged past 340 after more than 140 new infections were reported on Saturday . 
Around half of the total cases are associated with a religious group in the south of the country . 
Two patients have died of the virus in South Korea . 
South Korean authorities are taking measures to contain the outbreak , including shutting down public places in the capital Seoul and designating " special care zones . " 
Middle East spread : Iran 's health ministry has confirmed 18 cases of the virus , including four deaths , and said it has spread to several cities . 
Meanwhile , Lebanon and Israel have reported their first cases . 
WHO warning : World Health Organization director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the window of opportunity to contain the virus is " narrowing " and called on countries to prepare for community transmission . 
US cases rise : 34 people have tested positive for the virus in the US , according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . 
This includes 21 cases among repatriated individuals , as well as 13 other US cases . 
The CDC said it will now track confirmed cases in two separate groups : people who have been repatriated , and those identified by the US public health network . 
Prison outbreaks : 512 cases of the virus were confirmed from inside China 's prisons on Friday -- 271 in Hubei , 207 in Shandong and 34 in Zhejiang . 
