Concerns are growing over the global spread of the novel coronavirus in countries outside China , with Iran reporting a spike in numbers and deaths , and other Middle Eastern countries reporting their first cases . 
South Korea has also seen a huge uptick in cases , with over 430 now confirmed nationwide . 
Meanwhile , the World Health Organization 's director general has said the window of opportunity to control the outbreak is " narrowing . " 
What you need to know : The numbers : Confirmed cases of the coronavirus in mainland China increased by 397 on Friday to reach a total of 76,288 . 
Another 109 deaths were recorded in China on Friday , bringing its total death toll to 2,345 , according to China ’s National Health Commission . 
The global death toll stands at 2,360 . 
Changing the tally : Officials in Hubei province , the epicenter of the novel coronavirus outbreak , have banned the practice of reducing the number of already confirmed cases . 
It also mandated that all previously counted cases stand as part of the total confirmed tally . 
The vast majority of cases and deaths in China have been recorded in Hubei . 
Global cases and fatalities : More than 1,500 confirmed cases and 15 deaths from the virus have been recorded in more than 30 countries and territories outside mainland China . 
Italy reported its first death and Iran and South Korea reported new fatalities on Friday . 
9,000 in self isolation in South Korea : Cases in the East Asian country have surged to 430 after more than 220 new infections were reported in 24 hours . 
Around half of the total cases are associated with a religious group in the south of the country . 
Two patients have died of the virus in South Korea . 
Officials are testing and self isolating 9,300 members of the religious group to try and contain the outbreak . 
Authorities are also taking measures including shutting down public places in the capital Seoul and designating " special care zones . " 
Meanwhile , a fourth military member has been infected with coronavirus . 
Middle East spread : Iran 's health ministry has confirmed 18 cases of the virus , including four deaths , and said it has spread to several cities . 
Canada 's chief public health officer suggested further investigation was needed after a Canadian tested positive for the virus after returning from Iran . 
Theresa Tam suggested there could be " more widespread transmission than we know about . " 
Meanwhile , Lebanon and Israel have reported their first cases . 
New cases in Asia Pacific : Apart from China and South Korea , Japan , Taiwan and Australia all reported new cases on Saturday . 
WHO warning : World Health Organization director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the window of opportunity to contain the virus is " narrowing " and called on countries to prepare for community transmission . 
US cases rise : 35 people have tested positive for the virus in the US , according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . 
This includes 21 cases among repatriated individuals , as well as 14 other US cases . 
The CDC said it will now track confirmed cases in two separate groups : people who have been repatriated , and those identified by the US public health network . 
