As coronavirus cases began spiking in New York City in March , officials worried that the city 's notorious jail system on Rikers Island could become a powder keg inside the epicenter of the pandemic . 
In the weeks since , correctional officials handed out masks . 
They increased cleaning . 
And with a focus on creating more space for social distancing , the city pushed through the release from its jails of more than 2,600 people considered at low risk to commit a crime and high risk to contract the disease , with many of the inmates gaining their release through court decisions argued by advocacy groups . 
Despite these efforts , critics say there is still not enough sanitizing , social distancing and wearing of masks to stamp out an outbreak among 362 people currently incarcerated and more than 1,300 Department of Correction workers , according to data released by the Board of Correction on Friday . 
Since March , three inmates and 10 correction officers have died , according to New York City 's Department of Corrections . 
Across 37 states , 88 inmates and 15 correctional staffers died from Covid 19 between January 21 and April 21 , the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported . 
In all , 4,893 inmates tested positive , as did 2,778 correctional staff . 
" Jail is inherently not a place where you can socially distance . 
It 's just not built that way , " said Caitlin Miller , an attorney with Legal Aid Society 's parole revocation defense unit . 
Law enforcement officials say releasing inmates to curtail a public health crisis behind bars has increased the risk of crime , with the New York Police Department reporting about 150 people released from Rikers having been rearrested , some more than once . 
Some crimes were violent offenses , including domestic violence and attempted rape , police said . 
Advocates and a watchdog agency for the jail system contend that while correction officers wear masks , inmates do not nearly as often . 
Correction workers also warn their jobs are more unsafe than ever , as the number of employees with the coronavirus continues to climb . 
Keep reading . 
