Before British Prime Minister Boris Johnson went into intensive care on Monday evening with worsening coronavirus related symptoms , he asked his Foreign Secretary and First Secretary of State Dominic Raab to deputize for him " where necessary . " 
While now is a time of great uncertainty for the British public , Johnson ’s handing over of some duties to Raab should be relatively seamless and is unlikely to affect any immediate government business . 
Less clear is what will happen if Johnson is incapacitated for more than a few days . 
There ’s no clear " Plan B " in Britain ’s constitution or in the Cabinet Manual – which lays out the rules for running the government – for who should take over if Johnson is not able to lead the country , experts told Reuters . 
One thing that should help in terms of continuity : Unlike in the United States , where a President might hail from a different party than leaders in Congress , the UK government is entirely comprised of members of Parliament from Johnson ’s party , which won the most seats in December ’s election – meaning it operates as one entity . 
An ardent Brexiteer Raab , a 46 year old former lawyer , was elected to Parliament in 2010 , and spent his entire political career on the same wing of the party that secretly yearned for Johnson to have a serious go at taking the reins . 
Like Johnson , Raab is a longstanding advocate of Brexit who was willing to be a thorn in his own party ’s side when it had more pro European leadership . 
Despite his euroskeptic leanings , his qualities were noticed by that pro European leadership , and when then Prime Minister David Cameron won reelection in 2015 , Raab was offered a job in government . 
At the time , Raab was seen as a rising star within the party , and his promotion was seen as a way for Cameron to bolster his own euroskeptic credentials . 
Raab previously served in Theresa May ’s cabinet as the Brexit secretary , only to resign in protest at the deal she eventually struck with the EU . 
And despite running against Johnson in last summer ’s Conservative leadership contest , he has been extraordinarily loyal to the Prime Minister ever since . 
While Raab is perhaps less socially liberal than Johnson , it is highly unlikely he would depart radically from the Prime Minister ’s agenda in the short term -- not just because there simply is not enough time to change government policy during a time of national crisis , but also because the UK cabinet works on the principle of collective responsibility . 
