President Donald Trump vowed that his administration will not enforce a lockdown to curb the increasing cases of coronavirus in the US . 
" This administration will not be going to a lockdown , " Trump said speaking from the Rose Garden at the White House today . 
Instead , he said his administration will remain " very vigilant and very careful . " 
Some background : The US has added more than half a million new Covid 19 cases since hitting 10 million on Monday , according to data from Johns Hopkins University . 
At this rate , the number should pass 11 million in the next four days , making for the country 's fastest addition of another million cases yet , John Hopkins University data show . 
November has been crippling for American communities battling Covid 19 spikes in cases , hospitalizations and deaths . 
Experts warn it will likely get worse before it gets better . 
For the 10th day in a row , the US reported more than 100,000 infections , and the total since Monday hit 556,961 . 
On Thursday , with its highest daily number yet at more than 153,000 new infections , the country inched closer to what one expert predicted could soon become a devastating reality -- 200,000 cases a day . 
Trump also said the federal government wo not deliver a possible vaccine to New York state until the governor , Andrew Cuomo , lets the administration " know when he is ready for it . " 
Cuomo said that New York health officials would review any US approved coronavirus vaccine , and that he would recommend New Yorkers not be vaccinated until the state run process is complete . 
What this is about : Last month , Cuomo called the White House Covid 19 Task Force ’s vaccination plan " deeply flawed . " 
Cuomo said he understood that the federal vaccination plan would use pharmacies like CVS and Walgreens as the main distribution point and that was " a very limited distribution mechanism . " 
He later said the plan would disproportionately limit distribution in communities of color . 
Cuomo that he would recommend New Yorkers not be vaccinated until a state run review is complete . 
Today , Trump said the US government " ca not be delivering it to a state that wo not be giving it to its people immediately . " 
