India is the world 's second most populous country and its fifth biggest economy , with trade connections all over the globe . 
Despite that , the country of 1.34 billion has appeared to so far avoid the full hit of the coronavirus pandemic . 
It has only 492 confirmed cases of the virus and nine deaths . 
But fears are growing that the country remains susceptible to a wider , potentially more damaging outbreak . 
Experts have cautioned that India is not testing enough people to know the true extent of the problem -- and warn that the country faces several issues that could accelerate the spread of the virus . 
Testing capacity : India has a test capacity of 60,000 to 70,000 per week , according to Balram Bhargava , director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research . 
By comparison , the United Kingdom -- a country with 5 % of the population size of India -- says it is hoping to increase its test capacity to 25,000 a day . 
Why an outbreak could be hard to control : In parts of India , even basic isolation measures would be extremely difficult . 
Slums : In 2011 , an Indian government report estimated that 29.4 % of the country 's urban population live in low quality , semi permanent structures , known as slums . 
Many of the homes here do not have bathrooms or running water . 
Some slum residents get their water from a communal tap , while others collect theirs in canisters and buckets from tankers that visit a few times a week . 
This all makes it difficult to wash hands regularly . 
" Where on earth are they going to find the water and soap that they need ? " asks Bellur Prabhakar , a professor of microbiology and immunology at the University of Illinois . 
" I think it 's going to be nearly impossible to implement that plan . " 
Social distancing : In India , there are 455 people per square kilometer ( or 1,178 people per square mile ) , according to World Bank statistics -- significantly more than the world average of 60 people , and much higher than China 's 148 . 
Millions of jobs at risk : India 's cleaners , household workers , and construction workers could be hurt by lockdowns . 
According to official statistics from 2011-2012 -- the most recent data available -- there were around 400 million people in India 's labor market . 
Of those , more than half were self employed , and 121 million were casual workers . 
Read the full story here : 
