President Trump said Wednesday that he would be comfortable with his son and grandchildren physically returning to school in the fall , asserting that children do not catch or spread coronavirus easily . 
Asked during a White House news conference whether he ’d be comfortable with his family members returning to school , Trump responded , " Yeah , well I am comfortable with that . " 
Trump was also asked if his administration planned to develop a national strategy for getting children to return to schools in the fall , to which he replied , " We do have a national strategy . 
But as you know , ultimately it ’s up to the governors of the states . " 
" They do not transmit very easily ( to others ) and a lot of people are saying they do not transmit , " the President claimed , without evidence . 
" We ’re looking at that … they do not bring it home with them . " 
" They do not catch it easily , they do not bring it home easily and if they do catch it , they get better fast , " Trump asserted . 
" We ’re looking at that fact . 
That is a factor and we ’re looking at that strongly We ’ll be reporting about that over the next week . " 
But , US Surgeon General Jerome Adams recently told CBS News that though the risk to children getting coronavirus is low , they can still transmit it to others . 
" We know the risk is low to the actual students . 
But we know they can transmit to others . 
… We need to take measures to make sure we protect those who are vulnerable either because they are older or they have chronic medical conditions , " Adams said . 
Researchers in South Korea have also found that children between the ages of 10 and 19 transmit Covid 19 within a household just as often as adults do , according to research published in the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention journal Emerging Infectious Diseases earlier this week . 
They also found that children ages 9 and under transmitted the virus , as well , although at lower rates . 
CNN reported earlier Wednesday that in Florida , which is among the sunbelt states seeing a surge in coronavirus cases , a 9 year old girl has become the youngest person in the state to die from coronavirus complications . 
The girl is not known to have had underlying medical conditions and has become the fifth minor to die from Covid 19 in the state . 
More than 23,000 children under the age of 18 have tested positive for coronavirus , and more that 13 % of children who get tested turn out to be infected . 
The state 's total number of confirmed cases now stands at 379,619 . 
Watch more : 
