With Chinese authorities warning the coronavirus outbreak is accelerating , placing millions of people in more than a dozen Chinese cities under intense travel restrictions might seem like a good idea . 
But historically a mass quarantine is an aggressive response that 's far from perfect . 
In the past it has led to political , financial and social consequences . 
Quarantines date back to Italy in the 1300s , as the bubonic plague ravaged Europe . 
In Venice , sailors and ships coming from infected ports were made to wait 40 days before docking in a practice called " quaranta giorni , " or " 40 days . " 
No quarantine goes perfectly : People criticize quarantines because in practice a virus or bacteria " invariably gets loose , " as do people , said Howard Markel , professor and director of the Center for the History of Medicine at the University of Michigan . 
Logistical issues : Just the word " quarantine " can cause panic or hysteria , Markel said . 
Anyone concerned about a common cold or sniffle will head for hospitals , straining already precious resources . 
Wuhan officials have already acknowledged local hospitals were struggling to accommodate people seeking medical attention . 
Broader financial consequences : Quarantines " are often very economically and financially costly , " said Alexandre White , an assistant professor of sociology and the history of medicine at Johns Hopkins University . 
The flow of trade in and out of the quarantined zone is halted , and goods in the process of being shipped could go bad -- depending on how long it lasts . 
Social impacts : Historically , the aggressive control needed in a quarantine can link the disease to marginalized people and potentially fuel existing anxieties about race and class . 
There was a " long history of quarantine being misused as a social separator , rather than a public health one , " Markel said . 
Trust and cooperation are key : The trust and cooperation of the public is the most important thing for officials to have in a public health crisis , said Lawrence Gostin , a professor of global health law at Georgetown University and director of the World Health Organization 's Center on Global Health Law . 
Without it , people wo not come in for testing and wo not share the names of people they 've been in contact with -- a vital part of the strategy to prevent the spread of disease . 
Read more on that here . 
