President Trump gave brief remarks to supporters at the Asheville Regional Airport landing zone , echoing much of what he said in Charlotte , touting the stock market , the employment numbers , and saying the pandemic will go away . 
The President also again predicted a vaccine will be announced shortly . 
" The vaccines are going to be , I believe , announced very soon , " Trump said , before praising convalescent plasma , calling it an " incredible thing . " 
The President also said he expects the economic comeback from coronavirus to be strong next year , saying " next year we are going to have one of the best years economically and in other ways that we have ever had before . " 
Some background : On Saturday , Trump accused , without providing any evidence , the US Food and Drug Administration of deliberately delaying coronavirus vaccine trials , pressuring the man he had picked to head the agency . 
" The deep state , or whoever , over at the FDA is making it very difficult for drug companies to get people in order to test the vaccines and therapeutics , " Trump tweeted , continuing to push his unfounded theory that there is a " deep state " embedded within the government bureaucracy working against his reelection . 
He accused the agency of delaying a vaccine for the virus until after the fall election , tweeting , " Obviously , they are hoping to delay the answer until after November 3rd . 
Must focus on speed , and saving lives ! " 
Trump ended his tweet by tagging the Twitter account of FDA Commissioner Dr . Stephen Hahn , who he nominated last year to take up the role . 
Hahn assured Americans earlier this month that the agency " will not cut corners " to approve a vaccine . 
Trump has promised that a vaccine would be available by the end of the year , though vaccinologists told CNN that timeline is unrealistic . 
And his latest comments wo not allay the fears some experts and Americans have that the administration will rush to prepare a vaccine at the expense of science and safety . 
The FDA does not conduct the trials itself , but instead oversees the people who do , according to the agency . 
As CNN previously reported , one vaccine candidate , developed by Moderna and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , moved to phase 3 clinical trials late last month . 
