Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte has criticized the European Union 's proposed tourism plan to allow special so called green corridors between countries within the bloc , which could see Italy cut off from summer tourist destinations . 
The suggested tourism corridors would allow certain countries with low or sharply declining Covid 19 infection rates to open up to a select few destinations until borders are fully reopened . 
" [ Tourism ] cannot be conditioned by bilateral agreements or we will be out of the European Union , we will never permit it " , he added , underlining that tourism represents up to 13 % of Italian GDP . 
Conte 's comments come as the EU is debating whether to permit the so called " green corridors " or " travel bubbles " between countries according to their epidemiological situation . 
Conte said he has told the European Commission President , Ursula von der Leyen , that these " corridors " would mean the " destruction " of the EU 's single market . 
The losses on the Italian tourism sector due to the coronavirus could be around 120 billion euros ( $ 130 billion ) until the end of the year , according to the Italian Confederation of Enterprises ' Confcommercio ' . 
Up to 420,000 jobs and 270,000 businesses in trade and tourism are also at risk . 
The Italian government has allocated 5 billion euros ( $ 5.4 billion ) to support the tourism and culture sector in its 55 billion euro ( $ 60 billion ) stimulus package to help the country recover from the economic hit of coronavirus crisis . 
This includes tax cuts for business owners , a 500 € ( $ 540 ) vacation bonus for families with an income under 40,000 euros to travel inside of Italy , and extending hotel vouchers valid from 12 to 18 months , the Minister of Tourism , Dario Francheschini announced on Thursday . 
CLARIFICATION : This post has been updated to indicate Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte was critical of the European Union 's plan , which could allow special so called green corridors . 
