Mexico will need up to 200 million coronavirus vaccine doses , according to a senior government official . 
The immunisation of its 120 million inhabitants could start as early as April if clinical trials and regulatory approvals for pharmaceutical firm Astra Zeneca go as planned , Reuters reports . 
In partnership with the governments of Mexico and Argentina , Astra Zeneca initially plans to produce 150 million doses in early 2021 and eventually make at least 400 million doses for distribution throughout Latin America . 
Astra Zeneca is among those working on Covid 19 vaccine candidates around the world . 
Mexico ’s government has also said it is considering other options for bringing a vaccine quickly to its population , the second largest in Latin America . 
Astra Zeneca will be able to produce between 30 and 35 million vaccines per month , Martha Delgado , a Mexican deputy foreign minister , told Reuters in an interview on Friday . 
The vaccine could require two doses to be effective , Delgado said . 
" If we need 200 million , we ’re going to be vaccinating for a long time , " Delgado added . 
Last stage so called Phase III trials are expected to conclude by November or December , after which Astra Zeneca will seek government approvals if the vaccine is found to be safe and effective . 
If that goes smoothly , Delgado estimated the first vaccines in Mexico could be administered in April . 
Mexico ’s death toll of 55,908 stands as the world ’s third highest behind the US and Brazil . 
Latin America ’s 6 million cases and more than 237,000 deaths make it the world ’s hardest hit region . 
To ensure all Mexicans have access to a vaccine , the government of president Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador is in talks with other pharmaceutical laboratories in different stages of developing a vaccine . 
" Astra ’s production is not going to be enough for Mexico . 
We need to supplement that with a couple of more vaccines , " Delgado said . 
Mexico ’s government has completed memorandums of understanding with French drugmaker Sanofi , Johnson & amp ; 
Johnson ’s Janssen unit , and Chinese companies Can Sino Biologics Inc and Walvax Biotechnology Co Ltd . Can Sino and Walvax are interested in producing a vaccine in Mexico for delivery to the Latin American market . 
