The Israel Museum has pulled the priceless Dead Sea scrolls out of a heavily fortified vault ahead of its reopening to the public following a five month shutdown amid to the coronavirus pandemic . 
The museum , Israel ’s largest cultural institution , closed down in March as the country entered lockdown . 
But budgetary problems left the Jerusalem museum shuttered after Israel began easing restrictions on public spaces in May . Most of the museum ’s 500 employees have returned from months of furlough ahead of Thursday ’s reopening , which will also see the return of other treasured artworks and artefacts . 
Throughout the empty galleries , curators and cleaners dusted off works , removed protective coverings and returned masterpieces from storage . 
The Dead Sea scrolls fragile , two millennia old parchments that include the oldest existing copies of Biblical texts came out of deep sleep in the museum ’s climate controlled vaults to return to display , Shrine of the Book curator Hagit Maoz said . 
The delicate scrolls require low light and humidity for their long term preservation . 
Each scroll sits in the showcase only for three months , then we rotate the parts , " said Maoz . 
Because we did not know how long we wo not be here ... to be on the safe side we decided to take everything down " to the vault . 
In the museum ’s modern art wing , senior curator Adina Kamien oversaw the re installation of several statues by celebrated French sculptor Auguste Rodin , including the iconic " The Kiss " . 
She said : I feel that the museum is returning to life . 
A museum that ca not welcome its patrons is a dead museum . 
An artwork and exhibit are not complete without visitors . 
Though the country began rebooting the economy in May , the Israel Museum struggled to raise funding to allow it to sustainably open for the duration of the crisis , director Ido Bruno said . 
Israel closed its borders at the start of the lockdown , and the international tourism on which the museum relies for ticket sales plummeted from a record high of over 900,000 visitors in 2019 to zero by mid March . 
The museum received funds from American donors and a pledge of funds from the culture ministry that helped it reopen . 
In line with health ministry regulations , entry to the museum will be restricted to a cap of 2,000 people at any given time , and tickets must be ordered online in advance . 
" Its very , very difficult to be a director of a closed museum , because museums want to be open , " Bruno said . 
They want to welcome people . 
They want to open up . 
