The Diamond Princess : The Princess Cruises operated ship was quarantined with thousands of people on board after it was revealed that an infected passenger flew into Tokyo and spent a few days aboard . 
On Saturday morning , 64 passengers had tested positive for the virus and been taken off the ship for treatment . 
About 2,600 guests and more than 1,000 crew are on board . 
The initial infected passenger is an 80 year old from Hong Kong who flew into Tokyo -- the world 's most populous city -- on January 17 with his two daughters . 
Two days later , he began coughing , Hong Kong authorities said . 
He boarded the cruise in Yokohama on January 20 . 
When it stopped in Hong Kong on January 25 , he got off and never returned . 
He sought medical attention on January 30 and was diagnosed with the virus shortly after . 
Hong Kong authorities said he was in stable condition Wednesday . 
The quarantine is expected to end February 19 . 
The World Dream : The World Dream is docked at Hong Kong 's Kai Tak Cruise Terminal , with 3,600 passengers and crew on board in quarantine . 
The ship docked there on Wednesday after it emerged that three former passengers , who took a World Dream cruise to Vietnam from January 19 to 24 , had the coronavirus , the ship 's operator , Dream Cruises , said in a statement . 
The crew from that voyage stayed on as the World Dream picked up a new set of passengers before sailing to Hong Kong Wednesday morning , Hong Kong authorities said . 
Hong Kong 's Health Department said Wednesday some 30 members of the crew reported feeling sick , but all were in stable condition . 
Three who reported fevers are in isolation in a Hong Kong hospital for further testing . 
The Westerdam : The Westerdam cruise liner left Singapore on January 16 for what should have been a 30 day tour of Asia . 
But after it stopped in Hong Kong on February 1 , the ship has been turned away from the Philippines and Taiwan due to fears over the coronavirus . 
There is no suggestion that any passengers , current or former , have been infected . 
The ship , which is operated by Holland America , had been set to stop at five ports in Japan , but on Thursday the Japanese government said it would not allow the Westerdam to call anywhere in its territory . 
