Large numbers of people flocked to popular tourists sites and major cities across China over the country 's holiday weekend , despite warnings from health authorities that the risk posed by the coronavirus pandemic remains far from over . 
Images from the Huangshan mountain park in Anhui province on Saturday April 4 showed thousands of people crammed together , many wearing face masks , eager to experience the great outdoors after months of travel restrictions and strict lockdown measures . 
Such was the rush to get into the popular tourist spot , that at 7.48 a.m . , authorities took the unusual step of issuing a notice declaring that the park had reached its 20,000 person daily capacity , and would not be accepting any more visitors , according to state media Global Times . 
Restaurants and parks packed : Meanwhile in Shanghai , the famous Bund waterfront was packed with shoppers and tourists , after weeks of being near deserted . 
Many of the city 's restaurants that were shuttered only days ago also appeared to be doing a brisk trade , with several requiring reservations . 
A similar story played out in the capital Beijing , with locals flocking to the city 's parks and open spaces . 
Caution urged : The abrupt return to apparent normality comes more than three months after the virus was first detected in the Chinese city of Wuhan . 
The outbreak , which has since spread around the world infecting more than a million people , saw much of China brought to a near standstill in an effort to contain transmissions . 
At its peak , thousands of new cases were recorded in China every day . 
However , in recent weeks the rate of infection has slowed significantly . 
On Monday , China reported just 39 new cases , all but one of which were imported . 
To date , China has recorded 82,641 cases and 3,335 deaths . 
But while the government is slowly relaxing restrictions , Chinese health experts have urged the public to continue to practice caution . 
Read the full story : 
