Researchers in New York will announce new week the preliminary results of a study on hydroxychloroquine , a drug often touted by President Trump as a " game changer " for coronavirus patients . 
The announcement could offer one of the first scientific hints as to whether the drugs are helpful against the virus . 
Since hydroxychloroquine is already on the market for malaria , lupus and other diseases , doctors are free to prescribe it " off label " to patients with coronavirus . 
Doctors can also prescribe chloroquine , a similar drug , and azithromycin , an antibiotic that ’s sometimes paired with the two drugs . 
The New York study will review hundreds of medical records from hospital patients across New York state with coronavirus to see if the drugs are helping them or hurting them . 
A recent chloroquine study in Brazil was halted because study subjects who were taking a high dose of the drug had a higher risk of potentially deadly heart problems . 
Because of those cardiac concerns , a Swedish government agency has issued a warning that that chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine should not be used outside of clinical trials for Covid 19 . 
The Albany researchers will review hospital charts to see if patients who are taking the drugs have different outcomes compared with those who are not . 
They ’ll be comparing mortality rates , and rates of admission to the intensive care unit as well as any side effects of the drugs . 
The researchers hope to study 1,600 patients divided equally into four groups : those taking hydroxychloroquine ; those taking hydroxychloroquine along with azithromycin ; those taking chloroquine ; and those taking none of the drugs , as a comparison group . 
Holtgrave said he hopes to have final results at the end of the month . 
He said doctors should not make prescribing decisions based on the results of his study alone . 
Rather , he said doctors should look at his results together with the results of clinical trials , which are considered more rigorous . 
In clinical trials , which are considered the gold standard in medicine , doctors give the drugs to a group of patients and then give placebo pills to another group of patients , and compare how the two groups fare . 
There are more than a dozen clinical trials underway in the US right now but results for most of them wo not be published for months . 
The Albany medical records study is being conducted in partnership with the New York Department of Health , which is funding the study . 
