The maker of Lysol issued a statement Friday clarifying that under no circumstances should its products be administered into the human body , after US President Donald Trump suggested the possibility of injecting disinfectants to treat the coronavirus . 
Manufacturer Reckitt Benckiser said that the range of disinfectants and cleaners must not enter the body " through injection , ingestion or any other route . " 
" We have a responsibility in providing consumers with access to accurate , up to date information as advised by leading public health experts , " the company said . 
The statement followed remarks from President Trump on Thursday on the use of disinfectants . 
" And then I see the disinfectant where it knocks it out in one minute . 
Is there a way we can do something like that by injection inside or almost a cleaning ... it would be interesting to check that , " Trump said . 
" It sounds interesting to me , " he added . 
CNN ’s Chief Medical Correspondent Dr . Sanjay Gupta was quick to point out that this is simply wrong . 
" He also said it needs to be studied . 
Actually , it does not . 
I mean we know the answer to this one , " he said on CNN ’s Anderson Cooper 360 on Thursday . 
" I think everybody would know that that would be dangerous and counter productive . " 
The US Food and Drug Administration regularly warns the public against drinking bleach , or even inhaling fumes from bleach . 
It 's also irritating to skin . 
On Monday , the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said calls about poisonings with cleaners and disinfectants had increased more than 20 % in the first three months of 2020 -- as coronavirus cleaning increased -- than from the same period a year earlier . 
Among cleaners , bleaches accounted for the largest percentage increase in calls from 2019 to 2020 . 
The CDC recommends using soap and water or bleach on surfaces to kill the virus . 
Rubbing alcohol that 's at least 70 % alcohol will also kill it on surfaces ; 
60 % for your hands . 
