Leaders from around the world joined the World Health Organization , after it announced the launch of a new effort to accelerate the development of vaccines , diagnostics and therapeutics in response to the coronavirus pandemic . 
Here 's what they 're saying : Melinda Gates , speaking for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation , a co host of the effort , said , " the moment we are living through right now is a reminder , that we ’re all part of the same global community . 
As new diagnostics , treatments and vaccines become available , we have a responsibility to get them out equitably , with the understanding that all lives have equal value . " 
António Guterres , secretary general of the United Nations said " the world needs development , production and equitable delivery of safe and effective Covid 19 vaccines , therapeutics and diagnostics . " 
Giuseppe Conte , prime minister of Italy said , " There is one thing we understand well , finding and distributing the vaccine is the only way to win this battle , " adding , " You can count on Italy , together we will make it . " 
Dominic Raab , Britain ’s Foreign secretary who has stepped in for Boris Johnson , said " by working together , we can develop an affordable vaccine which is accessible to everyone who needs it , as quickly as possible , to end this pandemic once and for all . " 
Cyril Ramaphosa , president of South Africa said , " As now more than ever , the world needs solidarity and cooperation to mobilize and guide all efforts and drive delivery towards equitable access to new Covid 19 diagnostics , therapeutics and vaccines . " 
Ramaphosa added , " Africa is extremely vulnerable to the ravages of this virus , and is in need of every possible support and assistance . " 
Erna Solberg , Norway prime minister said , " We must commit to a system of fair global access , because as long as the virus is active somewhere , we are at risk everywhere . " 
Muhyiddin Yassin , prime minister of Malaysia said , " the only way we can destroy this common invisible enemy of ours is through solidarity and cooperation . 
The world needs to come together to coordinate our efforts and expedite the development of effective tools to stop the spread of this disease . " 
