New Zealanders on Wednesday scrambled to stock up on essentials as the country ’s biggest city prepared to go into lockdown again , following new cases of the coronavirus that ended a 102 day record run without any new infections , Reuters reports . 
Prime minister Jacinda Ardern announced overnight that she was shutting down Auckland after four new cases of Covid 19 were discovered in the city from the same family , despite the international borders ’ being shut to foreigners and returning New Zealanders put in mandatory quarantine . 
The government has said the source of the new infections was unknown so far . 
Long queues were reported outside supermarkets in Auckland and across other parts of the country , as people raced to stock up on food and other essential items before the new restrictions took effect from noon . 
New Zealand ’s biggest city will move back into alert level 3 lockdown , which would mean people should stay away from work and school , and gatherings or more than 10 people would again be restricted . 
The restrictions will be in effect for three days , until Friday . 
The rest of New Zealand will move into level 2 , meaning social distancing measures would be applied and mass gatherings would be limited to 100 people . 
Health minister Chris Hipkins told Radio New Zealand on Wednesday that the government was considering making mask wearing mandatory for Aucklanders . 
New Zealand ’s successful fight against Covid 19 was hailed globally , and the Pacific island nation of 5 million was seen as one of the safest places , as the pandemic raged globally . 
It marked 100 days without a domestic transmission of the coronavirus on Sunday , but warned against complacency as countries like Vietnam and Australia which once had the virus under control now battle resurgences . 
Calls have grown to postpone the national election scheduled for 19 September , as political parties suspended campaigns due to the new restrictions . 
" It ’s going to be very difficult to have an election in mid September when we are now mid August , " opposition National Party leader Judith Collins told Newshub . 
Ardern , who is seen winning comfortably , according to opinion polls , has said she has not yet considered the impact of the new restrictions on the polls . 
