UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson cautioned that people should " enjoy summer safely " and still follow social distancing rules when England 's bars and restaurants reopen tomorrow . 
He said that the spike in the English city of Leicester , where some coronavirus restrictions have been reimposed , showed that " we are not out of the woods yet . 
The virus is still with us . " 
The prime minister warned that anyone flouting restrictions was " letting down " the businesses who have worked hard to prepare for reopening under coronavirus measures . 
Johnson said there was " no doubt " that the lockdown saved " many hundreds of thousands " of lives , but had a " devastating impact " on the economy . 
He said that next week the government will set out a timetable for the reopening of businesses like nail bars , indoor gyms and swimming pools , but warned that he " will not hesitate in putting on the breaks " and impose restrictions again if the virus gets out of control . 
Johnson also said that " local lockdowns will be a feature of our lives for some time to come . " 
He explained that if the virus continues to spread in an area , authorities will first target specific locations and close premises , restrict access , and trace contacts of anyone who tested positive for coronavirus . 
If this is not successful in driving down the number of infections , the government will then apply a local lockdown , which could mean closing schools and businesses and asking people to stay at home , as is currently the case in Leicester . 
The country 's latest data : The virus R rate — the average number of people each infected person passes the virus onto — remains between 0.7 and 0.9 across the UK according to the government 's Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies ( SAGE ) , Johnson said . 
" We are now reporting regularly fewer than 1,000 new cases each day . 
The Office for National Statistics estimates that between the 14th of June and the 27th of June , 25,000 people in the community in England had the virus . 
One person in every 2,200 , " Johnson said . 
