War ravaged Yemen has reported its first confirmed case of Covid 19 , weeks after the World Health Organization warned of the virus ’s " catastrophic " consequences for the country . 
The novel coronavirus case was reported Friday in the country ’s Hadhramaut governorate , the internationally recognized government ’s National Higher Committee to Counteract the Coronavirus Epidemic said in a tweet . 
On Sunday , the Saudi led coalition to fight Iran backed Yemeni Houthi rebels declared a two week ceasefire . 
It said it was heeding calls from the United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres for end of hostilities in the country in order to pave the way to a coronavirus response . 
Coalition spokesperson Turki al Malki also said the temporary ceasefire would usher in talks for a permanent resolution to the five year conflict . 
An outbreak could be " catastrophic " : In March , a WHO representative told CNN that the spread of coronavirus in Yemen would " have a tremendous impact " on a health system works at " less than 50 % capacity " due to the country ’s conflict . 
" As a result , ( the coronavirus ) would be catastrophic in an environment in Yemen , " WHO Yemen Representative Dr Altaf Musani told CNN . 
" Points of entry , vulnerable people , migrants , refugees , displaced individuals -- all of this is why we have gone for a moderate to high risk assessment of the country , " he said . 
Yemen is also has the world ’s largest cholera epidemic and has outbreaks of seasonal diseases such as Malaria and Dengue . 
" Yemen has the largest case load of needs in terms of scale and severity which we as humanitarians deliver on , " he said . 
" Dengue , cholera , complicated births and mental health issues associated with five years of conflict creates a dangerous storm that can come together and add another layer of vulnerability to Yemen . " 
There are 700 ICU beds in Yemen , including 60 for children , and 500 ventilators , according to a March statement by Save the Children . 
Around 80 % of Yemen ’s 30.5 million people are in need of aid , the charity added . 
