Researchers are learning more about what pregnant women may experience if they are infected with the coronavirus that causes Covid 19 . 
Pregnant and recently pregnant women who are diagnosed with Covid 19 in the hospital appear to be less likely to have symptoms of fever and muscle pain but more likely to be admitted to the intensive care unit , according to a new paper published in the BMJ medical journal on Tuesday . 
The study also found pregnant women with Covid 19 are at increased risk of delivering preterm , but preterm birth rates were not high , and more study is needed . 
" We found that one in 10 pregnant or recently pregnant women who are attending or admitted to hospital for any reason are diagnosed as having suspected or confirmed covid 19 , although the rates vary , " the researchers — from various institutions in Europe and China — wrote in the paper . 
More on the study : The researchers reviewed 77 studies on Covid 19 in pregnant and recently pregnant women , published from Dec . 1 and June 26 . 
Collectively , those studies included data on 13,118 pregnant and recently pregnant women with Covid 19 , and 83,486 non pregnant women of reproductive age who also had Covid 19 . 
" The covid 19 related symptoms of fever and myalgia manifest less often in pregnant and recently pregnant women than in nonpregnant women of reproductive age , " the researchers wrote . 
" Pregnant or recently pregnant women with covid 19 seem to be at increased risk of requiring admission to an intensive care unit or invasive ventilation , " they wrote . 
" Increased maternal age , high body mass index , and pre existing comorbidities might be associated with severe disease . " 
The researchers also found in those studies that pregnant women with Covid 19 are at increased risk of delivering preterm and their babies being admitted to the neonatal unit , although overall rates of spontaneous preterm births were not high . 
Also , stillbirth and neonatal death rates were low , the researchers found . 
Limitations of the study : The paper had some limitations , including that the studies used in the review primarily reported on pregnant women who required visits to the hospital and not many studies reported outcomes by trimester . 
" Reviews such as this can only be as good as the studies they summarise and it is important to note that a high proportion of the included studies have a substantial risk of bias , " Dr . Marian Knight , professor of maternal and child population health at the University of Oxford in the United Kingdom , said in a statement distributed by the UK based Science Media Centre on Tuesday . 
" It is also important to recognise that , whilst this review reports high preterm birth rates , a number of women affected by COVID 19 in pregnancy are still pregnant , and thus are not included in the study data . 
This may make preterm birth rates appear artificially high , " Knight said in part . 
" Nevertheless , some pregnant women affected by COVID 19 may have a subsequent preterm birth and preventing infection remains essential . " 
