A dozen US states reported record one day increases in Covid 19 cases on Thursday , a day after the country set a record with nearly 105,000 new infections reported on Wednesday , according to a Reuters tally . 
The outbreak is spreading in every region of the country but is hitting the Midwest the hardest , based on new cases per capita . 
Illinois reported nearly 10,000 new cases and along with Texas is leading the nation in the most cases reported in the last seven days . 
Other Midwestern states with record increases in cases on Thursday were Indiana , Iowa , Minnesota , Missouri , North Dakota and Ohio . 
Arkansas , Maine , Oklahoma , Rhode Island , Utah and West Virginia also set records for rises in new infections . 
Some cities and states have announced new measures such as curfews or reduced gathering sizes to combat the spread of the virus , but the United States has taken no action at the federal level . 
Seventeen out of 50 states do not require masks . 
Many countries in Europe are shutting high risk businesses and even ordering national or regional lockdowns as a second wave sweeps over the continent . 
In addition to rising cases , US hospitalisations of patients with Covid 19 rose to over 52,500 on Thursday , up for an 11th day in a row and getting closer to the record of 58,370 set in July . 
North Dakota reported only eight free intensive care unit beds in the entire state on Thursday . 
Hospitalisation are a key metric because they are not affected by the amount of testing done . 
Coronavirus deaths are trending higher but not at the same rate as cases . 
The United States is averaging 850 deaths a day , up from 700 a month ago . 
In recent days , six states have reported their highest one day increases in deaths ever : Arkansas , Idaho , North Dakota , South Dakota , West Virginia and Wyoming . 
The pandemic has affected nearly every aspect of American life , including a record number of voters mailing in their ballots in Tuesday ’s presidential election , whose outcome has yet to be decided . 
For all things election head over to our US politics live blog : 
