Researchers are continuing to work on developing Covid 19 vaccines , and several have started showing positive results . 
Here 's the latest on where the process stands : One vaccine appears safe ( but more research is needed ) : Early results of a closely watched Phase 1/2 trial published in The Lancet suggest a coronavirus vaccine developed by the University of Oxford and Astra Zeneca is safe and induces an immune response . 
However , researchers stressed more study is needed to know whether the vaccine protects people against the virus . 
About the timetable : Astra Zeneca told a US congressional hearing on Tuesday that it is on track to have a possible vaccine ready as early as September . 
But hours later , the head of the UK vaccine task force warned a possible coronavirus vaccine is unlikely to be made widely available before 2021 . 
Meanwhile , other company executives said they were aiming for early 2021 . 
Companies are moving quickly , but safely : A number of representatives from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies testified before Congress yesterday . 
When asked whether the speed at which they are moving to develop a Covid 19 vaccine could influence safety , they insisted that was not the case . 
Other results : A Covid 19 vaccine candidate being developed by US pharmaceutical company Pfizer and German biotechnology company Bio NTech was shown to elicit " robust " antibody and T cell immune responses in an early phase one/two study , the companies announced in a press release on Monday . 
That data has not yet been published in a peer reviewed medical journal How a vaccine would be distributed in the US : The US Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Defense announced an agreement today with Pfizer Inc . for " large scale production and nationwide delivery of 100 million doses of a Covid 19 vaccine in the United States " after it is successfully developed and approved . 
If the vaccine is successful and receives EUA or licensure , nationwide delivery would begin in the fourth quarter of 2020 . 
The doses would be delivered to locations at the US government ’s direction and it would be available to American people at no cost , a released said . 
