Researchers in the US and across the world are working on possible coronavirus vaccines . 
Here 's what we know about where some pharmaceutical companies stand in the process : Astra Zeneca Early results suggest a coronavirus vaccine developed by the University of Oxford and Astra Zeneca is safe and induces an immune response . 
However , researchers stressed more study is needed to know whether the vaccine protects people against the virus . 
Astra Zeneca told a US congressional hearing on Tuesday that it is on track to have a possible vaccine ready as early as September . 
But hours later , the head of the UK vaccine task force warned a possible coronavirus vaccine is unlikely to be made widely available before 2021 . 
Pfizer A Covid 19 vaccine candidate being developed by US pharmaceutical company Pfizer and German biotechnology company Bio NTech was shown to elicit " robust " antibody and T cell immune responses in an early phase one/two study , the companies announced in a news release on Monday . 
That data has not yet been published in a peer reviewed medical journal . 
The US Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Defense announced an agreement today with Pfizer for " large scale production and nationwide delivery of 100 million doses of a Covid 19 vaccine in the United States " after it is successfully developed and approved . 
If the vaccine is successful and receives EUA or licensure , nationwide delivery would begin in the fourth quarter of 2020 . 
Moderna A Covid 19 vaccine developed by the biotechnology company Moderna in partnership with the National Institutes of Health has been found to induce immune responses in all of the volunteers who received it in a Phase 1 study . 
These early results were published in the New England Journal of Medicine last week . 
But will these vaccines be safe ? 
A number of representatives from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies testified before Congress yesterday . 
When asked whether the speed at which they are moving to develop a Covid 19 vaccine could influence the safety of the vaccines , they insisted that was not the case . 
Meanwhile , Dr . Anthony Fauci , the nation 's leading infectious disease expert , today said teams " are going as quickly as we possibly can " on vaccine development while still being safe . 
" If you want to do it correctly , with safety , and real attention to safety and efficacy , I think we are going as fast as we possibly can , " Fauci said . 
