A sixth , and last extension of the state of emergency was approved in a close vote by the Spanish Parliament , to last until June 21 . 
Now in its third month , the extended state of emergency , which has been in place since March 14 , will give the government continued authority to control movement across Spain even as the country continues to relax confinement measures . 
The country ’s 17 regional governments will have the power to determine the pace and course taken during the last , third phase , of the de escalation process in their communities , which has been managed by the central government until now . 
He said the state of emergency , considered to be Europe ’s strictest confinement measures , were fundamental to controlling the spread of Covid 19 . 
Answering the main conservative opposition Popular Party leader Pablo Casado ’s accusation that the Prime Minister " was unable to save lives " , Sánchez said : " Today , we have zero deaths from Covid 19 in Spain , " referring to the previous day ’s zero mortality statistic . 
He continued by saying that " the strict confinement has been efficient " in battling Spain ’s health emergency . 
Sánchez , whose Socialist minority government worked in recent days to ensure enough votes from other parties to pass the extension , urged parliamentarians to approve it this last time , saying said it is needed in order to complete the country ’s de escalation towards a " new normality . " 
Opposition parties , including the far right Vox party , the third largest in parliament , have accused the government of dictatorial rule through the state of emergency , and pushing the country into economic ruin . 
Sanchez responded by saying " the government understands the impatience of economic sectors , but health takes priority . 
Without health , no business will stay open . " 
Sanchez also said his cabinet will approve a decree for a " new normality , " with necessary containment measures until a vaccine or treatment is found . 
Some more context : 70 % of Spain is currently in Phase 2 of de escalation from the severe confinement measures in place at the height of the pandemic , but the capital , Madrid , and Spain ’s second largest city , Barcelona , are behind in Phase 1 . 
They were the hardest hit areas by the virus , with the most cases and deaths . 
Four small islands in Spain ’s Canaries and Balearic Islands have already advanced to Phase 3 , which has the fewest restrictions on activity and movement . 
Most recent data from Spain ’s Ministry of Health published Wednesday afternoon show a total of 27,128 deaths due to Covid 19 , and 240,326 infections . 
One new Covid 19 death has been reported in the latest data . 
