The NBA ’s Golden State Warriors have been developing a plan that would allow the team to reopen Chase Center in San Francisco to 50 % capacity for the 2020-21 season . 
The team confirmed to CNN Friday that the plan would involve what is considered the most accurate rapid Covid 19 testing for all fans , staff and players , along with strict protocols . 
The plan was recently submitted to San Francisco and California officials for review . 
ESPN 's Ramona Shelburne was the first to report the news . 
Warriors owner Joe Lacob , who has a master 's degree in public health , told ESPN he believes his team ’s plan , which he says will cost some $ 30 million , can be a model for all sports franchises and entertainment venues to bring fans back safely . 
California announced in October plans to allow some fans at outdoor sporting events in counties with low infection rates . 
But San Francisco has been tightening restrictions on indoor activities amid the recent rise in cases . 
" Many venues in other sports have implemented strict protocols to welcome fans back on a partial basis , but adding a testing component – along with strict protocols – to our reopening strategy would help us achieve our number one priority , which is the health and safety of our fans , staff and players , " the Warriors said in a statement . 
Sport under pressure : Other sports are also being battered by the virus . 
A sixth top 25 game was taken off of Saturday 's college football schedule . 
No . 
15 Coastal Carolina ’s game against Troy was postponed due to a combination of positive Covid 19 tests and injuries in the Troy football program . 
The other five games affected include top ranked Alabama at LSU , No . 
5 Texas A&M at Tennessee , No . 
12 Georgia at Missouri , No . 
24 Auburn at Mississippi State with No . 
3 Ohio State at Maryland being the lone game canceled . 
Saturday ’s Arizona State home football game against Cal was also canceled due to multiple coronavirus cases at Arizona State , including Sun Devils head coach Herm Edwards . 
