As governments in Europe battle to control further waves of the coronavirus pandemic , Covid 19 cases are increasing across the continent , as students are returning to school . 
Here are the latest developments : Germany continues to grapple with a steady rise in infections , with 711 new cases reported on Monday , according to the Robert Koch Institute . 
This comes after a dramatic increase of 2,034 cases on Saturday , the highest number of infections in the country since April 26 . 
Germany had its infection peak in early April when cases hovered around 6,000 every day . 
The return of schools and holidaymakers from European travels has played a role in the recent resurgence of cases . 
The UK recorded a further 1,041 new cases on Sunday as its schools prepare to reopen . 
However , the chief medical officers and deputy chief medical officers of its four nations said they are " confident that there is clear evidence of a very low rate of severe disease in children of primary and secondary school ages compared to adults " in a Sunday statement . 
It added that teachers are not at an increased risk of dying from Covid 19 compared to the general working age population , but did recognize that it " is likely opening schools will put some upward pressure on transmission more widely and therefore increase [ the ] R [ reproduction rate ] . " 
France reported its highest increase in case numbers since exiting lockdown , with 4,897 new cases reported Sunday by national health agency Santé Publique France . 
This takes the total number of cases to 242,899 . 
There are currently 59.8 cases per 100,000 residents , according to the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control ( ECDC ) . 
Despite the impact on the country 's health system being " very limited , " the numbers of patients in hospital , particularly in intensive care , is beginning to rise , tweeted Health Minister Olivier Véran on Sunday . 
Véran urged French citizens to " break this dynamic " as French schools gear up for students to return . 
Belgium was one of the first countries to be hit by a new wave in cases and it drastically tightened social distancing measures on July 27 . 
Belgians will have to continue restricting their social bubble to five people for a further month so that schools can return safely , according to a Thursday press release from the country 's National Security Council . 
The measures appear to be paying off with the average number of daily cases lower than the previous week . 
Last week there were an average of 493 daily cases compared to a daily average of 581 the previous week , according to figures from the country 's epidemiological institute Sciensano published Monday . 
Ireland continues to deal with the fallout from a political scandal which saw the EU Commissioner for Trade , a Supreme Court judge and a government minister attend a golf event in violation of the country ’s coronavirus social distancing rules , which restrict gatherings of more than 50 people . 
The country recorded 156 new cases on Saturday and 61 more on Sunday , according to the Department of Health , after significantly tightening up social distancing . 
Under new measures Irish citizens cannot gather in groups larger than six people indoors and 15 people outdoors . 
Italy recorded another 1,210 cases Sunday , the highest number of new cases since May 12 , in addition to 1,071 cases on Saturday . 
Health officials say the increase in cases is due to large numbers of Italians returning from overseas . 
The Lazio region , which is home to the country 's capital Rome , recorded 215 new cases Saturday , 61 % of which were found to be linked to the tourism hotspot of Sardinia . 
Regional health assessor Alessio D 'Amato said Saturday that while " hospitals and intensive care units are under control , " young people in Italy must not assume they are " invincible " to the virus . 
Croatia 's case numbers continue to increase after the country was removed from the UK 's quarantine exemption list Thursday . 
There were 171 new cases reported Monday morning , according to the ECDC , which said the country has a rate of 57.8 cases per 100,000 persons . 
Spain saw 8,148 new cases recorded in the 24 hours leading up to Friday , according to the country 's Ministry of Health , one of the highest daily increases since lockdown measures were eased at the end of June . 
Spain currently has the highest infection rate of any country in Europe , according to the ECDC , with a 14 day cumulative number of cases of 152.7 per 100,000 people . 
The government will release the latest data on Monday . 
