US President elect Joe Biden has hailed the " positive news in this fight " against coronavirus , after Monday 's announcement of " progress made toward a successful vaccine " — but added the process must " be grounded in science and fully transparent . " 
Biden added that even if a vaccine is approved , it " will not be widely available for many months yet to come . " 
Drugmaker Pfizer announced Monday that an early look at data shows its vaccine is more than 90 % effective -- a much better than expected efficacy if the trend continues . 
Other responses : World Health Organization Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus posted on Twitter on Monday that the announcement was " encouraging " news . 
Tedros said the world was experiencing " unprecedented scientific innovation " and " collaboration " to end the pandemic . 
According to WHO , as of last week , there are at least 47 Covid 19 candidate vaccines in clinical evaluation around the world . 
Admiral Brett Giroir , the US Department of Health and Human Services ' assistant secretary for health , also said he was encouraged , during a call with reporters . 
Giroir emphasized that people in the United States must continue physical distancing , wearing masks and maintaining hand hygiene -- and said that testing remains important . 
Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer called the results " great news , " adding that she was proud to see that Pfizer , " a Michigan business … will produce the vaccine . " 
Whitmer cautioned that when the vaccine is ready " it will take time to distribute , " saying everyone needed to " continue doing their part " to protect each other from Covid 19 , and that was why it was " so important that President Elect Biden has announced a team of medical experts to lead our country ’s COVID 19 response . " 
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said Canada had signed a deal with the drug company in August to secure millions of doses , adding that other vaccine candidates were also progressing well . 
He emphasized how important it was for Canadians to control the spread of Covid 19 in the coming months , so that when vaccines arrive the country can act quickly . 
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said that if the vaccine passes all the rigorous safety checks and is approved for use , " this country will be ready to start using it . " 
Speaking at a news conference at Downing Street , Johnson said the vaccine had been tested on over 40,000 volunteers and interim results suggested it was 90 % effective . 
He said the UK government had ordered 40 million doses of the vaccine -- enough for about a third of the population at two doses each " and that puts us toward the front of the international pack on a per capita basis . " 
The UK has also ordered more than 300 million doses from five other vaccine candidates , he added . 
Watch Biden 's message on masks : 
