The suggestion made by a leading doctor that Covid 19 could " fizzle out " has been criticised by other experts . 
Prof Karol Sikora , dean of medicine at the University of Buckingham , said there were three potential outcomes for the outbreak , when he appeared on the BBC ’s Politics Live on Tuesday . 
Sikora , a leading oncologist and former chief of the World Health Organization ’s cancer programme , said : Number one is what we all want , the thing just fizzles out , it causes very few deaths , very few hospitalisations , nobody gets really ill , and it just gradually drifts into that sort of hinterland of a chronic viral infection , sits in the population and bubbles up now and again without too much problem , just like the flu , just like the common cold . 
The second outcome is local spikes and the third outcome is full blown second wave , we genuinely do not know what ’s going to happen . 
I think , being positive about it , it ’s got to be the first one , but there are other scenarios that we have to plan for , that ’s the problem . 
Sikora later said both human behaviour and the virus had changed during the pandemic . 
He added : " It ’s probably changed again , it wants to live with us , that ’s the problem , it wants to actually be nice to us and go on forever living with us , and killing us is not a good way to start a relationship . 
" It is trying to change , we ’ve certainly changed – what we ’ve heard about the schools trying to implement handwashing , social distancing , all the other things – that ’s a change in our behaviour and that will drive the infection down . 
" What the outcome is now , with local spikes , or second wave , or just fizzling out we have to see , but I ’m the fizzling out brigade , I must say . 
" It seems likely to me that the lack of hospitalisations is really good news . " 
Dr Michael Head , senior research fellow in global health at the University of Southampton , said the Covid 19 pandemic is accelerating globally : It would be very dangerous to promote the idea that the virus is ‘ fizzling out ’ . 
In the most recent ( World Health Organization ) situation report , there were 1.8 million confirmed new Covid 19 cases , an increase in the number of new cases from the week before , and bringing the total number of cases over the last six months to more than 25 million . 
We are a long way from being anywhere near the concept of being able to say that Covid 19 is ‘ fizzling out ’ . 
Addressing Sikora ’s discussion of how the virus had changed , Dr Stephen Griffin , associate professor in the School of Medicine at the University of Leeds , said it was " flawed " to think the coronavirus had become less pathogenic . 
He said : Whilst the virus genome drifts gradually in sequence and some changes have become widespread , there is no evidence to suggest that the virus is in any way attenuated . 
Whilst the number of deaths and hospitalisations has lessened in the UK , this is proportionate to case numbers and heavily influenced by the changes to patient demographics . 
Overall , the rise and fall in cases correlates with non pharmaceutical interventions , falling when they are implemented and potentially rising again when they are relaxed unless community transmission is halted . 
This is not fizzling out in any sense . 
Minimising the seriousness of this disease risks resurgence on a troubling scale . 
