Passing through airports in Hong Kong and Tokyo this week highlighted the differences in the approaches of the two Asian hubs in dealing with the novel coronavirus pandemic . 
Arriving in Hong Kong : After disembarking directly onto the tarmac , we were taken to a quarantine area on the lower level of the airport . 
There we underwent multiple health and security checks . 
My temperature was taken , and I filled out a detailed questionnaire on my travel history . 
Quarantine officers gave me a checklist of instructions for after I left the airport , including that I take my temperature twice daily and immediately report any abnormal symptoms to the Department of Health . 
If I was to land in Hong Kong today , it would be even stricter . 
The local government announced this week that anyone arriving from a foreign country is required to self quarantine for two weeks , and will likely be issued an electronic monitoring bracelet that will alert the authorities if they leave their home or hotel . 
Arriving in Tokyo : When I arrived at Narita airport in Japan this week our plane pulled up to the gate as usual . 
I walked freely through the airport , more than 500 meters to the quarantine office where about 10 quarantine officers hastily tried to process everybody who came from my flight . 
Nobody took my temperature , although I did walk past a thermal camera scanning for elevated body temperatures . 
But it was a cold evening and many passengers were bundled up in coats that could have hindered the camera 's ability to get an accurate reading . 
My quarantine officer gave me forms to sign in English requesting that I remain in my home for 14 days , check my temperature daily , and avoid public transportation . 
These were simply requests , and are not being enforced . 
I am following the suggested protocol , but there is nothing to stop me from going anywhere I please . 
But without widespread testing , it 's hard to know whether the calm in Tokyo is a true picture of the coronavirus situation in Japan -- or if it is actually the calm before the storm . 
Read the full story here : 
