India 's capital New Delhi is bracing for the annual pollution season to begin . 
As fall ends and the temperature begins to slowly drop , the pollution across North India rapidly starts to rise every year . 
For the past few years , winter has seen New Delhi enveloped in a thick smog that pours in from burning crop fields , factories chugging out toxins , and smoke from firecrackers set off in anticipation of India ’s annual festival of Diwali . 
The city has been ranked the most polluted in the world , and the air quality last year reached levels more than 20 times World Health Organization ( WHO ) " safe " guidelines . 
Last year , authorities also declared a public health emergency for the city . 
When the air quality worsens the smog becomes visible and the thick haze irritates eyes and throats , an ashy taste is constantly on your lips . 
Those suffering from asthma and other respiratory illnesses often report complications . 
Double health threat : This year , the unease in breathing is exacerbated by the coronavirus pandemic . 
For months , we have been sequestered in our homes and venture out reluctantly with a palpable fear of testing positive and having to battle with a broken healthcare system . 
India reported 63,371 new Covid 19 cases and 895 deaths on Friday , with the nationwide number of infections more than 7.3 million -- the second most cases globally behind the United States . 
With hospital beds already in short supply and consultations with doctors largely limited to video calls , someone suffering from breathing issues due to pollution may have nowhere to turn to now . 
Like clockwork , every year in October I clean my air purifier and begin shuttering the doors and windows in my home to keep out the pollution . 
It 's an action which will restrict the little fresh air I am able to breathe during a self imposed lockdown . 
But for thousands of people who have existing respiratory illnesses , Covid 19 has come with an extra layer of fear that their lungs may not survive both -- the air pollution and the damage the disease brings with it . 
Survival mode : As authorities across multiple states scramble to reduce the smoke , we settle into a pattern of survival until the first rain at the end of the winter season clears the skies and we take off the masks that were protecting us from the pollution . 
This time it will be different . 
We were wearing masks before the pollution season began and will continue to do so long after it 's over . 
