A mid stage trial shows that a Chinese made Covid 19 vaccine seems to be safe , according to a study published in the Lancet Infectious Diseases Tuesday . 
Sinovac , the Chinese company that makes the Coronavac vaccine candidate , tested it in a randomized controlled trial involving 700 healthy adult volunteers between April and May . None of the volunteers had a history of a Covid 19 infection . 
None had traveled in areas with a high rate of the disease . 
Volunteers in the Phase 2 trial were divided into three groups . 
One group got a low dose of the vaccine , another got a higher dose and a third received a placebo . 
This particular vaccine uses a chemically inactivated whole virus based on a sample taken from a patient in China . 
Most of the other coronavirus vaccines in development use biotechnology approaches to produce just a fragment of the virus . 
Using a whole , killed virus is an older , tried and true method that makes vaccine production slower and that doctors say can produce more side effects . 
The results : The vaccine was well tolerated at all the dose levels , and there did not seem to be any safety concerns , according to the researchers , which include experts from the Jiangsu Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention , China 's National Institutes for Food and Drug Control , and Sinovac . 
The most common complaint was pain at the injection site . 
One volunteer in the high dose group had a severe allergic reaction within 48 hours of the first dose , which researchers said may be related to the vaccine , but the volunteer was treated for the reaction and recovered within three days . 
The same volunteer did not have a similar allergic reaction to the second shot . 
Even at the lowest dose , volunteers who received the vaccine seemed to show a robust antibody response within 14 days of the second of two injections . 
The injections were given 14 days apart . 
What about efficacy ? 
The levels of antibodies produced by vaccination were lower than in the volunteers who were infected by , and had recovered from , Covid 19 during the trial , but the researchers said they still expected it could provide protection . 
The study was not designed to determine how effective it was . 
There may be advantages to this vaccine , according to one researcher who worked at the company that made it . 
This vaccine only needs standard refrigeration . 
It also may remain stable for up to three years in storage . 
The company is continuing its trials to determine how effective the vaccine is . 
