It 's Election Day in the United States and the nation 's 7 day average of new daily coronavirus cases is at a peak -- 83,806 -- according to the latest data from Johns Hopkins University . 
Several battleground states are seeing their highest averages of new cases , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
Hospitalizations are surging across many swing states , data from The Covid Tracking Project shows . 
Here is a quick look at how each key battleground state is dealing with Covid 19 : Arizona Arizona is averaging 1,311 new Covid 19 cases a day . 
New cases are up 30 % from last week , according to Johns Hopkins University , and hospitalizations are surging , according to The Covid Tracking Project . 
Arizona is averaging 884 hospitalizations a day , up 7.5 % from last week . 
Arizona has no statewide mask mandate in place . 
Florida Florida is averaging 4,293 new Covid 19 cases a day . 
New cases are up 19 % from last week , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
Florida has now averaged more than 1,000 new daily cases for 150 days in a row , since June 6 . 
The state has the third highest cumulative case count and the fourth highest death count in the nation , according to JHU . 
Florida has no statewide mask mandate . 
Michigan Michigan is at a peak for new cases , reporting roughly 3,522 new infections a day over the last seven days – up 59 % from last week . 
Hospitalizations across the state are nowhere near their height back in April , but they have surpassed 1,000 a day since mid October , according to The Covid Tracking Project . 
On Monday , 1,966 people across the state were being treated in hospital for coronavirus – the highest number since May . Michigan requires face masks to be worn in public places statewide . 
North Carolina North Carolina has reported roughly 2,327 new cases a day over the past seven days – up 12 % from last week . 
Hospitalizations average 1,176 patients a day , according to The Covid Tracking Project . 
The state 's governor says North Carolina will remain in Phase 3 of reopening as cases and hospitalizations rise . 
North Carolina requires face masks to be worn in public places statewide . 
Pennsylvania Pennsylvania is averaging 2,285 new coronavirus cases a day , according to JHU . 
This is the highest new daily cases ever been – up 24 % from last week . 
Hospitalizations have been sharply increasing across the state since the end of September , according to The Covid Tracking Project . 
The state is averaging 1,245 current hospitalizations -- up 19 % from last week . 
Pennsylvania requires face masks to be worn in public places statewide . 
Wisconsin Wisconsin is averaging 4,464 new cases a day – up 15 % from last week , according to JHU data . 
Deaths across the state are also at their highest since the pandemic began , with an average of 37 deaths a day over the last seven days . 
Hospitalizations in the state are also the highest they have been since the start of the pandemic -- a seven day average of 1,478 patients , up 19 % from last week . 
Wisconsin requires face masks to be worn in public places statewide . 
Track Covid 19 cases in the US here : 
