South Africans in Wuhan , the epicenter of the novel coronavirus outbreak , have expressed frustration about their government 's lack of evacuation plans from the city . 
Several countries , including the US and Japan , have flown hundreds of their citizens out of the city . 
No support : South African Pieter Viljoen , who traveled with a colleague to Wuhan for a business conference before the city 's transport lockdown began , said the authorities in South Africa and its embassy in Beijing have not provided support or information about plans to repatriate them . 
Life under lockdown : Viljoen said he has remained in his hotel , which has shut down operations partially since the movement restriction put in place to help check the spread of the deadly virus . 
" You have only these small supermarkets where you can get food right now because of the complete lockdown . 
You ca not move around from one district to another , so supplies are not readily available , " Viljoen told CNN on telephone . 
Feeling abandoned : South African Jessika Bailing says she feels neglected by her country 's government . 
The 23 year old English teacher , who moved to Wuhan last year , said while many countries are racing to get their citizens out of the city , authorities in South Africa were reluctant to make such arrangements . 
" I 've watched other countries ' governments go above and beyond to evacuate their citizens and then we are faced with that kind of response from our government , how can one not feel abandoned ? " 
Bailing said . 
What does South Africa say ? : South Africa 's embassy in Beijing declined to comment on Viljoen 's allegations and directed CNN 's request for comment to the Department of International Relations and Cooperation ( DIRCO ) . 
DIRCO spokesman Clayson Monyela told CNN that the South African government and its health ministry was working on all requests . 
However , they must also consider travel and quarantine measures imposed by Chinese authorities to prevent the spread of the virus . 
No plans to evacuate : Despite growing calls for repatriation , South Africa 's Health Minister Zweli Mkhize on Wednesday said there were no plans to fly its citizens out as Chinese authorities have the outbreak under control . 
" The Chinese government has assured us that there is no evidence to necessitate the evacuation of foreign nationals living in Wuhan city , and they have called for calm in this respect , " Mkhize said . 
He added that they have been assured by the Chinese government that foreign nationals who fall sick will be treated in the same way as Chinese citizens . 
Read the full story here . 
