As many European countries prepare to relax coronavirus restrictions for the upcoming Christmas holidays , Ursula von der Leyen , president of the European Commission , has called on EU leaders not to ease measures too quickly : Addressing the European Parliament in Brussels , von der Leyen said , " Relaxing too fast and too much , is a risk for a third wave after Christmas . " 
EU countries are taking differing approaches for the Christmas holidays . 
Here 's a look at what some of them are doing : Today , the Irish government announced that it will ease restrictions for nearly two weeks around the Christmas period and is considering allowing up to three household to gather for the holidays , deputy premier Leo Varadkar told state broadcaster RTE on Wednesday . 
The country has been under the strictest " Level Five " restrictions since October , which prohibits social gatherings at homes or in gardens — with restaurants , cafes and bars only open for takeaway . 
Varadkar told RTE these restrictions would be eased " in phases " and would only be put back in place in January " if the virus is taking off again . " 
The number of Covid 19 infections in Ireland has steadily declined in the last two weeks , according to government data , with six deaths and 226 cases confirmed in the 24 hours up to Tuesday . 
French President Emmanuel Macron announced on Tuesday night a relaxation of lockdown measures in the country . 
France 's lockdown could be lifted on Dec . 15 , if the daily number of cases drops under 5,000 and there are only 2,000 to 3,000 patients in ICUs . 
There were 4,438 patients in ICUs as of Monday . 
In Britain , up to three households will be allowed to gather in the days around Christmas in an easing of Covid 19 restrictions , the UK government said Tuesday . 
Those households will be allowed to form a " Christmas bubble " and mix indoors , outdoors and in places of worship from Dec . 23 to 27 in all four nations of the UK . 
There will be no restrictions on travel across the country for that time period , even if some areas are under tighter measures under a tiered system than others . 
Poland has taken a more cautious line , with Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki urging people not to make any trips nor visit any attractions during the holidays . 
He said in a press conference at the weekend that a maximum of five people would be allowed to meet indoors , with those who live together not included in that limit . 
Similarly , in Germany , people will be allowed to gather in groups of up to five from two households . 
The country is to announce a more detailed plan in the next few days . 
Italy is adopting a careful approach , with Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte saying the " upcoming Christmas season will need tailored measures " because the country cannot allow itself to repeat what happened during the summer . 
In Spain the government and regions are discussing plans but no consensus has yet been reached . 
Belgium ’s Consultative Committee — made up of leaders from the three regional governments and federal government — is due to meet on Friday to assess the coronavirus measures currently in place and how the country would be able to celebrate Christmas . 
