More than 50 % of Spain ’s population , a total of 11 regions across the country , will transition into phase one Monday as part of the country ’s de escalation process during the coronavirus crisis . 
The two largest cities in the country and the hardest hit by the pandemic , Madrid and Barcelona , are staying on phase zero , which means they have not met all the technical criteria to start reopening yet . 
Phase one allows more movement within each province but citizens still need to follow social distancing , hygiene rules in public and private places and the use of masks on public transport is mandatory , Spanish authorities have said . 
Here 's what phase one means for different industries : Small retail businesses can open if they have a maximum area of ​ ​ about 4,305 square feet , or 400 square meters . 
The maximum capacity will be 30 % , respecting the minimum distance of about 6 feet between clients and should establish a priority service schedule for people over 65 . 
Hairdressing salons , beauty and physical therapy centers can open but a distance of more than 6 feet must be kept between customers and staff , who must wear protective equipment . 
Restaurant terraces are limited to 50 % of the number of tables authorized last year and more than 6 feet need to be maintained between customers . 
Each table or group of tables must not have more than 10 people . 
Hotels are allowed to open but restaurant services are only for the people staying there . 
The use of spas , gyms , mini clubs , children 's areas , discos , event rooms , among others , is still banned . 
Outdoor markets will also be allowed to reopen with a limit of 25 % of authorized spaces . 
Museums and private and public libraries will open under certain conditions such as operating at a third of their capacity and planning entry and exit times in advance Learning centers and universities can open for administrative functions . 
Prior to opening they must be disinfected . 
School and university directors will determine the amount of teaching and auxiliary personnel needed . 
Sporting activities in leisure and professional level will also see a change . 
Citizens will be allowed to use outdoors sporting areas except for swimming pools . 
Sports where up to two people participate is allowed , but no physical contact is allowed . 
In closed sporting centers , practice must be individual and by appointment . 
Wakes are allowed with a maximum of 15 people if it takes place outdoors and 10 people for closed spaces . 
Burials have a maximum of 15 people . 
Places of worship will be allowed to operate at a third of their capacity . 
People must wear a mask and spaces must be disinfected beforehand . 
The use of holy water or ritual ablutions will not be allowed . 
