Most of Spain 's schools will remain closed until September but the country is trying out a new normal for some students ahead of the autumn . 
The Colegio Virgen de Europa in Madrid is one of the few schools opening their doors to pupils -- with only a week left of classes -- cautiously testing new coronavirus precautions . 
Kids are checked for masks and fevers at the school gate . 
Classes begin and end with a thorough handwashing and disinfecting of desks and chairs . 
Students are allowed to take their masks off in the class room as long as they sit two meters apart . 
The same goes for the teachers , who have all been tested and cleared of the virus Classes are smaller . 
Coming to school is still optional . 
So , in the class we visited , half the students were learning by video conference . 
The other half sat at their desks , masks neatly folded into plastic envelopes . 
Most importantly , the classes stick together , minimizing interaction with other groups and grades . 
In hallways , masked students walk single file following taped arrows on the floor to ensure physical distancing . 
" If we should have a case in our school , we would then know which and how many [ students ] came into contact . 
So , we limit interaction with other classes as much as possible , " says O ’Halloran . 
It ’s tough on kids though . 
The hardest part , says fourth grader Ellana , is not being able to reach out and touch your friends . 
But just how much of a risk is opening schools ? 
" I believe the risk of reopening schools is not very high . 
Quite the contrary . 
The benefits of reopening for parent and child are very high . " 
Andrea Buron of the Spanish Society of Epidemiology told CNN in a video interview . 
" Children are at a low risk of catching the disease as well as spreading the disease . " 
But O ’Halloran has some advice for parents and kids who ca not wait to get back to school . 
" Time is important , " she said . 
" Learning the new rules is going to take a bit more time and patience . " 
