The Spanish government has announced details of further public spending to kick start the economy , after more than three months of severe restrictions due to the coronavirus . 
At a news conference Tuesday in Madrid , government chief spokeswoman María Jesús Montero announced that some 16 billion euros ( $ 17 billion ) would be disbursed to Spain 's 17 regional governments over the next few months , beginning in July . 
She described it as " the largest transfer of resources ever made to regions . " 
How the money will be dispersed , according to Montero : At least 9 billion euros will go to the health sector , to add staff and increase capacity to handle any new outbreaks of the coronavirus 5 billion will aim to compensate people for loss of income 2 billion euros will go to education . 
Part of the education spending will be to improve online teaching , including the purchase of 500,000 computers and tablets for schools The government has also approved a final installment of 15.5 billion euros in state credit guarantees to companies and the self employed , focusing on the tourism and car industries . 
This would be in addition to the 69 billion euros already provided in financing guarantees to Spanish business . 
Montero also said the government would announce an ambitious plan to revive Spain 's vital tourism sector later this week . 
Spain plans to relax quarantine requirements for European visitors starting on July 1 , but whether that will apply for British visitors is still unclear because of the UK 's own requirement that visitors , including Spaniards , self quarantine for two weeks on arrival . 
The Minister of Industry , Commerce and Tourism , María Reyes Maroto told the news conference that the new experiment this week of having a " secure air corridor " between the Balearic Islands — which include Majorca , Menorca and Ibiza — and Germany was " proving very useful from a security point of view to test the protocols [ to prevent the spread of Covid 19 . " ] Despite the government spending , which will take public borrowing well above 100 % of GDP , Spain 's central bank is forecasting a deep recession this year . 
Last week it predicted the economy would shrink between 9 % and 11.6 % in 2020 . 
