Warmer weather is unlikely to stop the spread of the deadly coronavirus , Dr . Francis Collins , the director of the National Institutes of Health , said in a blog post Tuesday . 
" We ’ll obviously have to wait a few months to get the data . 
But for now , many researchers have their doubts that the COVID 19 pandemic will enter a needed summertime lull , " he added . 
President Trump repeatedly speculated early in the pandemic that summer heat would lessen the spread and possibly kill the virus altogether . 
Collins said some lab experiments have suggested that increased heat and humidity might " reduce the visibility of SARS Co V 2 , " possibly in a way similar to other coronaviruses , like the common cold , that spread more slowing during warmer weather . 
But he emphasized that Covid 19 is different . 
He pointed to a series of computer simulations published in the journal Science by researchers at Princeton Environmental Institute that showed how the virus will likely spread this summer . 
He said the earlier studies that hinted hot temperatures could slow the pandemic down focused on better known infectious diseases . 
Even if one assumed the coronavirus was as sensitive to climate as other seasonal viruses , hot weather would not be enough to slow down its initial and rapid spread through the population . 
" Less clear is how seasonal variations in the weather might modulate the spread of a new virus that the vast majority of people and their immune systems have yet to encounter , " Collins wrote . 
However , researchers have suggested that as more people develop immunity , Covid 19 might fall into seasonal patterns similar to outbreaks caused by other coronaviruses . 
Collins said he ’s hopeful that the NIH will have developed effective treatments and vaccine for the virus long before that . 
He also suggested that one of the climate models showed that , along with warmer temperatures , if people continue social distancing and wearing masks this summer , those actions could help slow the spread of the deadly virus . 
