Health experts say they are unsurprised by the human to human transmissions of coronavirus in Japan , Vietnam and Germany . 
Dr Michael Head , senior research fellow in global health at the University of Southampton , said : The reported human to human transmission in Germany and Japan is unsurprising to see . 
We will continue to see further similar cases outside of China , but the indications are at this stage that onwards transmission will be limited , so there will likely not be too many cases for example across Europe , and on a much lesser scale than we are seeing in China . 
Prof Paul Hunter , professor in medicine , the Norwich Medical School , University of East Anglia , said : The recent reports would now bring to a total of three confirmed cases – in Vietnam , Japan and Germany – who have not visited China but only been in contact with cases from China . 
The fact that person to person transmission is occurring outside of China is not too surprising . 
The Vietnamese case was reported by WHO and he was in contact with his sick father who had returned from China . 
The Japanese case was a tour bus driver who had driven around two groups of Chinese tourists and the German cases had attended a work based training event also attended by a woman who only became ill two days later during her return to China two days later . 
The German case is most worrying because if the Chinese woman was indeed asymptomatic at the time of the training session it would confirm reports of spread before symptoms develop making standard control strategies less effective . 
This new information reinforces the importance of Public Health England ’s current advice that if anyone has returned from Wuhan in the last 14 days they should " stay indoors and avoid contact with other people as you would with other flu viruses " and " contact NHS 111 to inform them of your recent travel to the city " . 
I would add that this advice should also be followed by anyone who has been to any other area in China where the infection is known to be common or if they know they have been in contact with a presumed case . 
