Congress passed a Covid 19 stimulus relief package on Monday after months of negotiations . 
CNN asked you , our viewers and readers , for your thoughts on the latest bill . 
Many expressed frustration over the direct payment of $ 600 . 
Emily , a single mother from Iowa , said she ’s barely scraping by and that she ’s nearly a month behind on rent . 
Emily added she thinks the system needs an overhaul . 
" My tax dollars pay your salary , Mr . and Ms . Congressperson and senators . 
Be humble , " she added . 
Tony , from Baltimore , Maryland , shared similar sentiments . 
Tony said that he was out of work for months during the original shutdowns . 
He said the stimulus check he received in the first round of Covid 19 relief went to rent and feels that this latest $ 600 is a " slap in the face , " especially since it took so long to pass . 
" I 've paid a lot of taxes in my life . 
I even have paid penalties and yet this is how the leaders of our country help in return , " he told CNN . 
" This was just a power struggle between Republicans and Democrats . 
Meanwhile the people of America are suffering . 
I find it disheartening to see that they passed their spending bill which is larger than the stimulus bill , " Tony explained . 
Simone from Brooklyn , New York , said the pandemic has impacted her ability to provide for herself and her daughter . 
" I ca not work because of the lack of childcare . 
I currently receive $ 190 a week from unemployment , " Simone told CNN . 
She said she ’s currently behind on her rent and utility bills . 
" Thankfully , I do not have to face my electricity going out , however , I have to choose between feeding us , and paying rent over my utility bill and it ’s just going to pile up . 
$ 1200 is absolutely not enough for me and my daughter . 
Funding should target a larger stimulus check , " Simone said . 
On Tuesday night , President Trump said that he wanted the direct payments to increase to $ 2,000 , casting uncertainty on whether the President would sign the current bill into law or veto it . 
Democrats have seized on President Trump 's latest demand and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she will move to pass legislation for $ 2,000 direct payments by unanimous consent . 
How has the pandemic and the uncertainty behind a relief package impacted you ? 
We want to hear your thoughts . 
