US hospitals must start reporting flu data to the federal government or face losing federal funding , Health and Human Services Department officials said Tuesday . 
Hospitals currently report positive and suspected cases of Covid 19 , fatalities and admissions on a daily and weekly basis and will now be required to report the same numbers for influenza , HHS said . 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention currently tracks flu hospitalizations in just 14 states and uses modeling methodology to estimate how many people are infected , hospitalized and killed by influenza across the country every flu season . 
But now the US is facing the threat of two deadly respiratory viruses – flu and coronavirus – circulating at the same time . 
Collecting more in depth information on flu from hospitals will help officials track it better , CDC Director Dr . Robert Redfield said . 
" ( The ) new data will give us a fuller picture of what is happening hospital to hospital regarding influenza in the hospital , in the hospital regardless , and may help us produce more accurate estimates of the burden of influenza each season , " Redfield told reporters . 
The CDC is not sure what ’s going to happen this flu season , Redfield said . 
" However , CDC is preparing for there to be a COVID 19 and seasonal influenza at the same time , " he said . 
More on this : If hospitals do not provide complete and accurate information on Covid 19 and flu , they will face " termination " of their Medicare and Medicaid services , according to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator Seema Verma . 
Verma said the 6,000 hospitals in the system will have " ample opportunity to come into compliance , " beginning Wednesday , when all facilities will receive an initial notice as to whether they ’re meeting current reporting requirements . 
Hospitals will be required to report daily and weekly Covid 19 and influenza admissions , confirmed and suspected cases , fatalities and data on personal protective equipment . 
Daily and weekly reporting on Covid 19 cases has improved , said White House coronavirus task force coordinator Dr . Deborah Birx . 
" We 've gone from 86 % to 98 % of all hospitals reporting at least weekly , and we 've gone from 61 % to 86 % of hospitals reporting daily , " Birx said . 
Now we want to collect flu information from hospitals " to have a comprehensive understanding of influenza in the community , " Birx said . 
Receiving timely and complete information is really crucial in battling the coronavirus epidemic , she said . 
