A class action lawsuit has been filed against Austria and its federal state of Tyrol in connection with a mass coronavirus outbreak in the ski resort of Ischgl in March , and its subsequent spread to European countries and beyond . 
The Austrian Consumer Protection Association ( VSV ) has submitted a first description of the facts to the Public Prosecutor ’s Office in Vienna for its investigation , a statement on the VSV website says . 
More than 1,000 people say they are joining the lawsuit , according to multiple reports . 
CNN has asked the cabinet of the Austrian chancellery for comment . 
The class action aims to prove the authorities in Austria and Tyrol state did not do enough to shield visitors from the coronavirus prior to March 13 -- by not closing the resort or warning skiers the virus was circulating . 
In a statement to CNN , Tyrol state said people are " free to bring actions to court in a constitutional state " and it " has the greatest possible interest in re evaluating all developments over the past few months . " 
However , the statement continues , the pandemic put " many countries and regions around the world ... in an exceptional situation unimaginable just a few months ago , " adding that it is working closely " with the judiciary " and an expert commission tasked with looking into Ischgl 's coronavirus crisis management . 
The class action will also aim to prove that the sudden quarantine order issued for Ischgl and surrounding areas on March 13 allowed the virus to spread across Europe . 
The VSV report says : " If you were at the ski resorts of Ischgl , Paznauntal , St . Anton am Arlberg , Sölden or Zillertal on 5 March 2020 or later , and shortly afterwards were diagnosed with the coronavirus , then you may be entitled to claim damages against the Tyrolean authorities and also against the Republic of Austria , provided we can produce evidence for negligence through relevant reports or in criminal proceedings . " 
Ischgl and its neighboring villages draw around 500,000 visitors each winter , with high profile celebrities and politicians among them in previous years . 
