A woman returning home to China from the US carried coronavirus back with her and sparked an outbreak that ended up infecting at least 71 people , researchers reported Tuesday . 
It started with an elevator ride , the researchers report in the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ’s journal Emerging Infectious Diseases . 
The woman returned to Heilongjiang Province from a trip to the US on March 19 , about a week after the last coronavirus case was diagnosed in the province . 
She had no symptoms and tested negative for coronavirus , but was asked to quarantine at home . 
No one suspected anything was wrong until a man with no obvious connection to the traveler suffered a stroke . 
It turns out he had been at a party with relatives of a neighbor living in the same building as the traveler . 
When the researchers in China finally put the story together , they determined that the traveler must have somehow contaminated the elevator in her building . 
Her downstairs neighbor , who used the same elevator , also got infected , and she in turn infected her mother and her mother ’s boyfriend . 
They went to a party and infected the stroke patient and his sons . 
The stroke patient and two of his sons went to two hospitals . 
At least 28 people were infected at the first hospital and 20 more were infected when he was moved to a second facility . 
When the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention investigated the genetic makeup of the virus found in this new outbreak , they found it was different from strains previously seen in China . 
The viruses in the patients were genetically identical or at least very similar , which led them to believe the virus originated overseas . 
When investigators learned that a neighbor of one of the cases had recently returned from abroad , they tested her again . 
She was not currently infected but had antibodies to the virus , indicating a previous infection . 
They designated her A0 , meaning she was the first case . 
" Therefore , we believe A0 was an asymptomatic carrier and that B1.1 ( her neighbor ) was infected by contact with surfaces in the elevator in the building where they both lived , " they wrote . 
Other residents in the building all tested negative . 
" As of April 22 , 2020 , A0 remained asymptomatic , and a total of 71 SARS Co V 2–positive cases had been identified in the cluster , " the researchers wrote . 
