Here are the latest developments on the coronavirus pandemic : The numbers : As of Sunday afternoon in Geneva , the World Health Organization was reporting at least 153,648 cases worldwide . 
A separate tally by Johns Hopkins University , which is tracking cases reported by the WHO and additional sources , estimates that number may now be around 167,000 , with over 6,400 deaths . 
More cases outside China than inside : Mainland China reported 16 new confirmed cases of coronavirus and 14 new deaths as of Sunday , bringing the country 's total number of cases to 80,860 . 
There are now more cases outside of mainland China than there are inside . 
Italy cases spike : Italy on Sunday announced 368 new fatalities in just 24 hours , bringing the total death toll in the country to 1,809 . 
The total number of cases there reached 24,747 , with an increase of 3,590 new cases recorded in 24 hours , according to the country 's Civil Protection Department . 
Fed cuts rates : In a bold , emergency action to support the economy during the coronavirus pandemic , the Federal Reserve announced it would cut its target interest rate to zero . 
Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said the measures were " essential to contain the outbreak , " but will " take a toll on the economy in the near term . " 
US emergency measures : The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends canceling or postponing events involving more than 50 people for eight weeks as US cases rise past 3,400 . 
Some 29 states have announced school closures and several states are ordering bars and restaurants to close . 
Travel restrictions : More countries are enacting border or travel restrictions . 
Lebanon announced a two week lockdown , closing its airport , borders and ports , and people there are obligated to stay in their homes . 
The UK is advising against " all but essential travel to the USA . " 
Iraq is restricting movement in Baghdad for nearly a week , Colombia will block entry for all non residents and require residents who enter the country to self isolate for 14 days , and Germany is restricting border access with France , Austria , Switzerland and Luxembourg . 
Mexico is asking citizens to avoid non essential travel , and the Czech Republic is shutting down public services to prevent the virus spreading . 
Asia measures : Singapore will impose a 14 day mandatory self quarantine for new visitors traveling from several East Asian countries , Switzerland and the UK . 
Hong Kong is urging its citizens to avoid all non essential travel to Ireland , the UK and US . 
The Philippines has suspended land , sea and air transport in the Metro Manila area , limited the number of people entering the capital , shut schools and banned mass gatherings . 
Africa action : South Africa has declared a national disaster and announced travel restrictions to combat Covid 19 . 
Kenya 's government announced new travel restrictions after confirming two more cases . 
Morocco has suspended all international flights to and from its territory " until further notice . " 
