Fears of imported infections : As cases blow up in Europe and North America , fear is growing in Asia of the possibility of a second wave of infections from imported cases . 
Millions of people have lived under lockdown restrictions in China and elsewhere for months , and as life starts to return to normal , many are concerned that imported cases will undo those sacrifices . 
China : The country where the pandemic began reported 16 new cases of coronavirus on Monday , 12 of which were imported . 
Beijing has introduced strict new quarantine measures -- all overseas travelers arriving in the capital will be sent to quarantine facilities for 14 days at their own cost . 
What 's happening in Wuhan : The city where the novel coronavirus was first identified , still faces a " severe " epidemic as there are locally transmitted cases in the city . 
While numbers have slowed to single digits , there is still a risk of community infection . 
South Korea : Infections in South Korea continue to slow but the government has warned people to keep their guard up against further outbreaks . 
All European travelers will need to go through temperature checks , a medical survey , and monitor their temperature daily . 
Japan : Some 37 new infections and two deaths were reported in Japan on Monday , bringing the total cases to 1,526 with 31 deaths . 
On Saturday , Japan saw its biggest one day jump , with 64 cases . 
Restrictions : Singapore announced it will impose a 14 day mandatory self quarantine for new visitors traveling from several East Asian countries , Switzerland and the UK . 
Hong Kong has urged its citizens to avoid all non essential travel to Ireland , the UK and US . 
Starting Monday , Brunei is restricting all citizens and residents from leaving the country , except in certain circumstances such as to receive urgent medical care . 
Cases jump in Southeast Asia : Thailand on Sunday confirmed 32 new cases of coronavirus , the largest increase over a 24 hour period in the country , bringing the total to 114 cases . 
And Malaysia announced 190 new cases on Sunday , bringing its total number to 428 . 
Most of the new infections in Malaysia were linked to a religious rally that thousands attended near the capital Kuala Lumpur . 
