CNN 's Anderson Cooper pressed My Pillow founder Mike Lindell on his promotion of the use of Oleandrin as a potential therapeutic for coronavirus . 
Lindell could not cite a single published peer reviewed study about the effectiveness of the therapy . 
Lindell repeatedly pushed a study that allegedly tested the therapeutic on 1,000 people , but failed to properly cite who the study was conducted by when asked multiple times during the 20 minute interview . 
Cooper : " Where is the test ? 
Show it to us . " 
Lindell : " I do not have the test on me . " 
Cooper : " Name where it ’s from . 
Who did the test ? 
What university ? 
What doctors ? " 
Lindell : " I guess you ’d have to have Dr . [ Ben ] Carson and then the company ... that all the tests that were done , on your show . " 
Oleandrin is an extract from the plant Nerium oleander . 
The raw oleander plant is highly toxic , and consumption of it can be fatal . 
Last week , Lindell was added to the board of Phoenix Biotechnology , which makes Oleandrin , and received a financial stake in the company . 
Lindell insisted that his promotion of the therapy was not about personal profit . 
" I do not care about the money ... 
This company wanted me because I help people . 
That 's my passion and I can scale things to get it out to everybody to save our country , to save lives , " he told Cooper . 
Lindell also said that the US Food and Drug Administration has the studies backing his claim , but Oleandrin has not been approved by the FDA . 
The agency generally does not approve dietary supplements , but says it is the company 's responsibility to make sure its products are safe and claims are true . 
FDA has gone after hundreds of products for making false claims about diagnosing , preventing or treating Covid 19 . 
Additionally a member of the White House coronavirus task force told CNN this has never been brought up during a task force meeting — even those attended by Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson , who is a member of the White House coronavirus task force , with whom Lindell said he shared his findings . 
Watch the interview here : 
