Senate Republicans have drafted a scaled back coronavirus relief proposal as talks between Democrats and the White House remain stalled . 
While the proposal is not expected to be considered any time soon – the US Senate remains adjourned for summer recess – it serves as a new marker for a conference that has been fractious and divided throughout the coronavirus relief talks . 
It also marks the latest effort to jar loose talks that on economic relief that have only grown further from a resolution and outcome as the weeks have passed . 
Still , it includes $ 10 billion in funding for the US Postal Service , which has become a political flash point over the last several weeks due to operational changes that have led to allegations of deliberately slowed service . 
The proposal is a " skinny " version of the $ 1 trillion Senate GOP proposal introduced last month . 
Here 's what other key points it would also include : Liability protection $ 105 billion for schools A second round of Paycheck Protection Program loans It also would include an extension of the enhanced federal unemployment benefit , but at a reduced level of $ 300 . 
The benefit , which lapsed at the end of July , was set in the $ 2.2 trillion CARES Act at a flat rate of $ 600 . 
The $ 10 billion funding level for the postal service is a nod to the tentative agreement reached between Democratic and White House negotiators on funding and will allow Republicans to point to the measure as a way to address calls for Congressional action as the election approaches . 
The 169 page draft proposal is expected to serve as a discussion point among Senate Republicans in the weeks ahead , with the idea being that it could be considered upon their return to Washington in September , according to GOP aides . 
It also serves as an additional element for White House and Democratic negotiators to consider . 
Those talks , which fell apart earlier this month , have remained at a standstill over significant disagreements ranging from the topline cost to the specific components of any measure . 
" There 's a deal to do here if the Democrats want to be reasonable , " Treasury Sec . 
Steven Mnuchin said in an interview on CNBC . 
