A crew member aboard the Celebrity Infinity , part of Miami based Royal Caribbean , told CNN that one crew member died on board the ship last week . 
The announcement of the death came over the PA system and in a memorial service on the ship TV channel , according to Port and Shopping Guide Julia Melim . 
Royal Caribbean has confirmed the death to CNN , but will not confirm its cause . 
There are no passengers on the ship . 
Melim says she is one of more than 900 crew , who are stuck off the coast of Tampa . 
Melim told CNN that it was not until March 28 , after 14 days at sea , that Celebrity Infinity mandated that everyone on board the crew only vessel be quarantined in their cabin with meals delivered to their doors . 
Referring to Covid 19 , Royal Caribbean spokesman Jonathon Fishman said : " When we were first notified on March 23 of a positive test result , we took immediate action to implement enhanced , precautionary health measures , medical monitoring , and ship sanitization protocols for the protection of our crew ’s health in accordance with guidance by public health officials . " 
CNN asked Fishman a series of direct questions about Melim ’s allegations , including how it was not until March 28 that crew were confined to their cabins . 
Fishman responded : On March 23 , the ship sent out a memo to crew members who were on the Celebrity Infinity from March 9 through 14 , alerting them that a crew member who sailed on the ship during that time tested positive for Covid 19 . 
It said they could have been exposed to the illness . 
The memo outlined steps for temperature checks twice a day and said to avoid contact with others . 
But Melim alleges that Celebrity Infinity crew members were encouraged to participate in social events , from March 14 , when the ship dropped off passengers at the Port of Miami , until March 23 . 
" We had like crew parties , we had live music , we had concerts , movie nights , theater performances , " alleges Melim . 
At one point she said hundreds of people congregated at the ship 's auditorium . 
And even after March 23 , Melim says the ship still required the crew to get buffet style meals in a dining area full of people and had them walk through the ship for daily temperature checks . 
Melim says she tried to raise concerns verbally with her colleagues at meetings about the need to social distance , but she says she was immediately shut down . 
" They made me feel I was crazy to even bring it up . 
Anytime anyone raised a question , it was the general response : the ship is the safest place to be , " she said . 
Melim says it was not until the ship was anchored at sea and had no other option other than stay on the ship , that on March 27 the Celebrity Infinity first started revealing there were people with " flu like symptoms consistent with Covid 19 onboard the ship , " Melim told CNN . 
" And they said there were no confirmed cases , but they did not have any test kits onboard . 
So there is really no way they could have had a confirmed case , " she said . 
CNN has seen a memo sent by the doctor on the Celebrity Infinity to the ship and managers on board on March 25 , saying in part : " As we have seen how quickly this virus has spread around the world , I think we need to increase our public health measures around the ship . 
We need to start increasing our social distancing from each other before it is too late . " 
