While many foreign nationals are being evacuated by their countries from Wuhan and the wider Hubei province , tens of millions of Chinese people must stay put and endure life under lockdown . 
In Wuhan itself , 11 million people are marking a week on lockdown with no sign of immediate relief . 
Nor is there firm evidence that their sacrifice has been worth it , with the virus spreading around the country and scientists warning that other major cities could soon become self sustaining epidemics . 
Some 60 million people across Hubei , the province of which Wuhan is the capital , are on some level of lockdown , and many travelers from the region have been ordered to self quarantine , holed up in their apartments or hotel rooms for days on end . 
While " Come on Wuhan ! " has been a popular refrain online , and the country has largely pulled together to tackle the outbreak , there have also been reports of discrimination against Hubei residents , with them denied accommodation or entry to restaurants in other parts of the country . 
For those living in the smaller towns or satellite cities in Hubei , life with travel restrictions and not knowing whether supplies of food or medicines will last , is taking its toll . 
CNN spoke with an individual in Jingmen , another city in Hubei province about 130 miles east of Wuhan . 
Its population of roughly 2.94 million residents are also under travel restrictions . 
CNN has agreed to not name the individual because of security concerns and potential government reprisals for speaking to Western media . 
Although they live in another province in China , they are now stuck -- essentially quarantined -- at a family ’s apartment in the city . 
They say pedestrians have all but cleared out ; streets that used to be very busy and noisy are nearly silent . 
Officials have advised everyone there to stay indoors . 
They 've ventured out to a local store nearby where there was a mask shortage of the kind that has plagued other parts of China . 
They spend most of their time watching television , but playing the piano and doing housework also keeps them busy . 
The family has kept up their exercises . 
They told CNN things are calm , but there is a lot of concern because they have no idea when the travel restrictions will be lifted . 
