Jenna Davidson arrived in Shanghai three weeks ago . 
The Arizona State University student was supposed to spend the semester studying abroad at East China Normal University until the Wuhan coronavirus prompted the university to shut down . 
" We got here before the outbreak , and it went south really quick , " she told CNN . 
" I think things unfolded a lot faster than we thought that they would . 
" We went from just being , you know , encouraged not to go outside and not to go to , like , crowded places to ' do not go outside , do not ride the metro . ' 
It went from being just a little scary to pretty scary . " 
Classes were canceled , Davidson said . 
She and her friends have been stuck inside for days -- " no one in , no one out , " she explained -- and they ’ve been filling their time playing the card game Uno . 
Davidson said her study abroad group had started trying to leave campus because they were running out of food and school cafeterias are closed . 
A teacher was bringing them food , even though staff were told not to go on campus . 
A few students put on masks and went shopping at Costco , and since then they ’ve been making the food last . 
" It 's a ghost town . 
There 's 24 million people in Shanghai and there 's no one on the street . 
It 's kind of spooky , " she said . 
Davidson said was able to book a flight to Africa -- she was planning on studying abroad in Cape Town , South Africa , after China -- after hours of searching and paying much more than she expected to . 
However , she does not think she 's guaranteed to avoid catching the coronavirus . 
" What ’s most stressful is even though we ’re leaving I still do not feel like we ’re in the clear yet because what if we catch it in the taxi , or at the airport on the way home , or on the plane ? 
We still need to be very careful . 
It ’s not over yet , " she said . 
Despite the ordeal , Davidson said one day she ’d like to visit China again . 
" I 've always wanted to see China and it 's a little frustrating , even though this is out of anyone 's control . 
I have so many things that I wanted to see and do and we have not been able to go outside . 
So it 's a little frustrating , " she said . 
" Hopefully I can come back . " 
CORRECTION : This post was updated to amend the destination of Davidson ’s flight . 
