Much is still unknown about the Wuhan coronavirus outbreak , and health officials are urging vigilance . 
That means travelers crisscrossing the globe should be aware of the virus , steer clear of heavily impacted areas and exercise some of the same kinds of preventive measures they 'd use to avoid influenza and other illnesses . 
Here 's what travelers should know about the virus outbreak : Check travel advisories : Several countries , including the US , UK and Canada are warning against all nonessential travel to Hubei province , or even to the rest of mainland China . 
Airlines are suspending flights to China : Airlines based in Asia , Europe and North America are canceling flights to China . 
British Airways suspended direct flights between Britain and China on Wednesday . 
US carrier United Airlines announced that it has suspended flights from February 1 through February 8 between US hubs and Beijing , Hong Kong and Shanghai . 
Other airlines , including Lufthansa , Air Asia , Cathay Pacific , Air India and Finnair have similarly slashed or suspended service . 
What you should do : Many US airlines have offered waivers on change fees or the option to cancel for credit on a future flight . 
Travelers with upcoming plans should check with their airlines and look for advisories posted on carriers ' websites . 
Most travel insurance is unlikely to cover this situation : Airlines are relaxing their policies and some major hotel chains are waiving cancellation fees , but recouping all the costs associated with trips canceled due to Wuhan coronavirus fears is far from guaranteed . 
An outbreak of a virus is not covered under most standard trip cancellation insurance policies , according to Travel Insurance.com . If you cannot avoid travel to China : Those who ca not delay travel should " practice enhanced precautions " by avoiding contact with sick people , animals and animal markets and frequently and thoroughly washing hands , the CDC recommends . 
The CDC advises washing hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds . 
An alcohol based hand sanitizer can be used when soap and water are not available . 
If you feel sick : Discuss travel to China with your healthcare providers , the CDC advises , noting that older adults and travelers with underlying health issues may be at higher risk . 
Travelers who 've visited China within the past two weeks and are feeling sick with fever , have a cough or difficulty breathing should seek treatment right away and call ahead to tell medical providers about recent travel to China and symptoms . 
The CDC also advises potentially infected travelers to avoid contact with others , to not travel while sick and to be sure to cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve ( not your hands ) when coughing or sneezing . 
Read more on this here . 
