Food and drink producers are leveraging the coronavirus pandemic to push unhealthy products such as alcohol , sugar laden soft drinks and fatty fast food on consumers , an international coalition of health charities has said . 
Crowd sourced research conducted by the Non Communicable Disease Alliance raised concerns that food giants are fuelling increases in chronic conditions such as diabetes and heart disease - themselves known Covid 19 risk factors . 
Hundreds of examples reported from more than 90 countries included beer companies adapting their logos to suggest improved health , burger companies geo tracking customers with the promise of free food , and soft drink giants donating cans to struggling communities . 
Authors of the report , compiled jointly with the University of Edinburgh , accused food and drink behemoths of knowingly exacerbating the impact of Covid 19 on high risk constituents , including obese individuals and smokers . 
Lucy Westerman , police and campaigns manager with the NCD Alliance , said the survey had thrown up two clear trends . 
The growing epidemiological evidence that people living with NCDs are suffering worse outcomes from Covid 19 , and that many producers of unhealthy commodities have rapidly adapted their strategies in an attempt to capitalise on the pandemic and lockdowns . 
So called NCDs such as diabetes , hypertension and lung disease are the world ’s biggest killers , leading to 40 million deaths every year . 
Of more than 750 examples submitted by contributors of what the NCD Alliance called " corporate capture " by food and drink companies , the most were reported in Britain and the US . 
But there were also numerous signs of the alleged influence of corporate lobbying pushing policy makers to keep the sale of alcohol , tobacco and fast food even during near total lockdowns . 
In Bangladesh for example , the ministry of industry declared tobacco an essential commodity . 
Likewise , the government in Kenya included tobacco , alcohol and processed food and beverages in its official lists of essential items . 
While countries such as South Africa and Thailand did initially ban the sale of alcohol during lockdown , the researchers reported that both governments relented to industry pressure and repealed the restrictions far sooner than planned . 
Katie Dain , CEO of the NCD Alliance , called for tighter regulation on how companies market unhealthy products . 
" We see that companies are deploying these tactics ... in order to ingratiate themselves with policy makers while barely concealing cynical attempts to weaken current rules and head off future policies , " she said . 
