White House coronavirus task force member Anthony Fauci said he was in surgery and not part of the discussion during the Aug . 20 task force meeting when updated US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines were discussed . 
Fauci had surgery on Thursday morning to remove a polyp on his vocal cord . 
He had general anesthesia and doctors advised him to curtail his talking for a while to allow his vocal cords to recover . 
Some context : US Health and Human Services Assistant Secretary Dr . Brett Giroir said during a phone call with reporters on Wednesday that the updated CDC guidance on Covid 19 testing was last discussed and approved by White House coronavirus task force members last Thursday . 
Giroir said in the call that the updated testing guidelines originated from within the CDC and were written by multiple authors , adding that he , Fauci , Dr . Deborah Birx and Dr . Stephen Hahn worked on them . 
" The new guidelines are a CDC action . 
As always , guidelines received appropriate attention , consultation and input from task force experts , and I mean the medical and scientific experts , " Giroir said , also mentioning CDC Director Dr . Robert Redfield . 
" All the task force experts advise on coronavirus related matters . " 
The updated guidelines were released on Monday . 
Previous CDC testing guidance said anyone who had close contact with someone with coronavirus should get tested , whether they have symptoms or not . 
The site was changed to say : " If you have been in close contact ( within 6 feet ) of a person with a COVID 19 infection for at least 15 minutes but do not have symptoms , you do not necessarily need a test unless you are a vulnerable individual or your health care provider or State or local public health officials recommend you take one . " 
A senior federal health official close to the process told CNN on Wednesday the changes came as a result of pressure from the Trump administration . 
" It 's coming from the top down , " the source said . 
