CNN ’s Anderson Cooper and Dr . Sanjay Gupta hosted a global town hall on coronavirus with guests including former Vice President Joe Biden , Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and Dr . Deborah Birx , the White House coronavirus response coordinator . 
Here 's what was discussed : Testing and capacity : Birx said that it 's important for states to match need with capacity as they ramp up widespread testing -- an important lesson learned during the HIV/AIDS crisis . 
When asked about widespread testing , she said it was unrealistic to expect that every worker in the US would get tested . 
Guidelines to reopen the US : Birx said the guidelines issued by the White House today were " fairly strict " to give states the time to set up exactly how they ’re going to contact trace . 
Testing , contact tracing and surveillance will need to be done as a partnership between the states , local leaders and the federal government , Birx said . 
Social distancing measures : Dr . Chris Murray , the director of the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington , said cell phone data anonymized and shared with his research team shows that people by and large are following social distancing policies . 
Three steps to reopening : Dr . Leana Wen , the former health commissioner for the city of Baltimore , said that three things need to happen before economies and society can reopen safely : Economy vs health : Former US Vice President Joe Biden said it was a " false choice " to have to choose between the economy and peoples ' health . 
Biden said it was important that small businesses stay open and said , " We should think about how we do the economy in a different way . " 
Opportunity to change mindsets : Biden said the way to get through the pandemic is to stimulate the economy and deal with the recovery . 
" And the way you deal with recovery is you think much bigger than we have before , " he said . 
" I think we have an opportunity now to significantly change the mindset of the American people , things they were not ready to do , you know , even two , three years ago . " Zuckerberg on Facebook : Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg said employees of the social media giant will return to work in a staggered fashion and should not expect to be back in their offices until at least the end of May . He also said the company will hold off on hosting " any internal or external physical events that have 50 people or more in them " through June of next year . 
