Three frontline health care workers have mysteriously fallen out of hospital windows in Russia over the past two weeks , heightening public attention to the working conditions for doctors and medical professionals amid the coronavirus pandemic . 
Two of those health care workers are dead , and one remains hospitalized . 
Alexander Shulepov , an ambulance doctor in Voronezh , a city about 320 miles south of Moscow , is in serious condition after falling from a hospital window on Saturday . 
Local state television , citing regional health officials , said he fell out of second floor window of the Novousmanskaya hospital , where he worked and was receiving treatment after testing positive for coronavirus . 
Shulepov was hospitalized for coronavirus on April 22 , the same day he and his colleague Alexander Kosyakin posted a video online saying that Shulepov had been forced to continue working after testing positive for coronavirus . 
Kosyakin had also previously criticized hospital administration for protective gear shortages on his social media and was questioned by the police for allegedly spreading fake news . 
Police have not responded to CNN ’s request for comment . 
The Novousmanskaya hospital said in a statement that Shulepov had been taken off a shift as soon as he informed the hospital administration about his positive diagnosis and was offered hospitalization in the infectious diseases ward . 
Three days later , Shulepov retracted his previous statements , saying that in his video with Kosyakin he was " overwhelmed by emotions . " 
The second video Shulepov recorded featured Igor Potanin , the head doctor of the Novousmanskaya hospital , who said his medical staff has enough protective equipment . 
Shulepov was the third health worker in Russia to fall out of a window in the past two weeks . 
Last Friday , Elena Nepomnyashchaya , the acting head doctor of a hospital in the Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk , died after spending a week in intensive care , the regional department of the Health Ministry said in a statement . 
Local TV station TVK Krasnoyarsk reported Nepomnyashchaya allegedly fell out of a window during a meeting with regional health officials , during which they discussed turning the clinic into a coronavirus facility . 
Nepomnyashchaya was reported to have opposed those changes due to the lack of protective gear in the hospital . 
The Health Ministry ’s regional health department denied the allegations in a statement , adding that the hospital is in " reserve " for coronavirus patients and its staff has been trained and equipped . 
The hospital did not respond to CNN ’s requests for comment . 
On April 24 , Natalya Lebedeva , head of the emergency medical service at Star City , the main training base for Russia ’s cosmonauts , died in a hospital after a fall . 
The hospital within the Federal Biomedical Agency , which says it treated her for suspected coronavirus , released a statement that " a tragic accident " occurred , without elaborating . 
The hospital did not respond to CNN ’s request for comment . 
In the statement , the hospital said , " She was a true professional in her field , saving human lives every day ! " 
