Argentina has the world ’s highest rate of positive Covid 19 tests , according to Oxford linked tracker Our World In Data , with nearly six out of 10 yielding an infection , a reflection of low testing levels and loose enforcement of lockdown rules . 
Argentina was set to hit 800,000 confirmed cases on Monday , with a seven day rolling average of around 12,500 new daily infections . 
The country , which started strongly against the virus , passed 20,000 fatalities last week . 
Medical professionals said low levels of testing and lax restrictions had propelled the high positive rate , that climbed from around 40 % in August to just shy of 60 % in the last week , a Reuters calculation using health ministry data shows . 
" Is there isolation ? 
There is none . 
Are there ( enough ) tests ? 
No there are not , " Carlos Kambourian , a paediatrician in Buenos Aires , told Reuters . 
By comparison , New York state has a population of 20 million , less than half of Argentina ’s 45 million , yet carries out 100,000 tests a day , four times the number in Argentina . 
In New York state , the positive rate is a bit over 1 % . 
Argentina ’s government won plaudits for a tough early lockdown that began 20 March , but since then has been forced to loosen restrictions to help revive an economy already in recession for two years and as poverty levels and unemployment have risen . 
Kambourian added that there had been little in way of strengthening health services : " Certainly the strategies to stop a this type of pandemic are not being applied . " 
A source from Argentina ’s health ministry said the large number of positive tests was a result of its " Detect Ar " program , where testing focuses on contacts of those known to be infected . 
The government had pledged to raise testing levels . 
Argentina has the eighth most Covid 19 cases in the world , and is currently in the top five for rolling 7 day average new cases and fatalities . 
Latin America has been the hardest hit region of the world in terms of Covid 19 cases and deaths . 
