The Trump administration is tracking coronavirus conditions in Mexico and Latin America amid concerns the situation may deteriorate and drive migration north as cases in the region increase . 
As the virus sweeps through Latin America , the Department of Homeland Security has focused its attention on hospital capacity in the region , and whether the health infrastructure is equipped to adequately test and treat patients . 
The administration has largely sealed US borders since the start of the outbreak , leaning on travel restrictions to stem the spread . 
Like the US , neighboring countries to the south are also wrestling with Covid 19 . 
Over the weekend , Brazil surpassed 100,000 cases of the virus . 
The virus has given way to some of the administration 's long standing efforts to curtail immigration , including closing off the border . 
Senior White House policy adviser Stephen Miller , the architect of many of the administration 's immigration policies , has previously tried to use diseases , including influenza and the mumps , as grounds to tighten the border . 
In recent days , President Trump has repeatedly remarked on the conditions in Latin America , suggesting in a tweet that California " does not want people coming over the Southern Border " now there are rising coronavirus cases in Mexico . 
He also teased imposing restrictions on Brazil last week . 
Over the weekend , Trump also spoke with Interim President Jeanine Áñez of Bolivia and President Mario Abdo Benítez of the Republic of Paraguay to discuss the response to the pandemic , offering to provide assistance to both countries . 
Earlier in the year , the administration restricted travel from China and Iran . 
It later expanded those restrictions to most foreign nationals who were in Europe 's Schengen Area — 26 countries stretching from Iceland to Greece — and the United Kingdom and Ireland . 
Trump has heralded those efforts in his defense of the administration 's response to the coronavirus . 
The US has curtailed travel on its borders and invoked public health law to implement strict measures on the US Mexico border , which have also led to the swift removal of thousands of migrants , including children , and people seeking asylum . 
The US has by far the highest number of people infected with coronavirus in the world . 
Read the full story here . 
