In an interview with the New York Times , Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation co chair Bill Gates described optimism that the United States would ultimately help provide Covid 19 vaccines for poor countries around the world . 
" It ’s my disposition , " Gates said in the interview , published Monday . 
" Plus , I ’ve got to call these people up and make the pitch to them that this really makes sense – and I totally , totally believe it makes sense . " 
The Times said Gates was referring to leaders in the White House and Congress , who he has lobbied for $ 4 billion for Covid 19 vaccines for poorer countries . 
" As they say , " Gates said , " the US government – after it ’s tried every other thing – does the right thing . " 
The Goalkeepers Report from the Gates Foundation , which published Monday , showed that a large number of deaths could be prevented if Covid 19 vaccines were distributed to all countries based on their populations , rather than to rich countries first . 
But Gates acknowledged that this will not be soon . 
Gates said it " looks selfish " that the US avoided joining global Covid 19 vaccine development efforts and focused on deals with vaccine companies that ensure millions of doses are allocated to the United States , but he did not feel it was unjustified . 
" You ’re not going to succeed in getting the US to treat itself as just a random 5 % of the world ’s population , " Gates said , noting that American taxpayers have covered much of the costs for clinical trials and vaccine manufacturing . 
Gates told the Times he expected by next year , regardless of who wins the election , the US would come around to paying much of the estimated $ 4 billion needed to get Covid 19 vaccines to others around the world . 
Congress has repeatedly kept funds for AIDS , malaria and childhood vaccinations in the foreign aid budget , Gates said , despite attempts to slash them ; with the idea that no country is safe from Covid 19 until every country is , " there ’s a better global argument for generosity on this one than there is for H.I.V . or malaria , " he said . 
