Despite widespread mask wearing and testing , Canada is seeing a rising Covid 19 case count with leaders imposing new restrictions on social gatherings . 
New positive Covid 19 cases have doubled in Canada in less than a month with 952 cases reported Wednesday . 
While this represents about a quarter of new cases , per capita , reported by the US Wednesday , the doubling trend over the past month is a " cause for concern , " according to public health officials . 
The vast majority of cases are in people under the age of 40 and although hospitalizations remain low , Canadian officials have started imposing new restrictions in recent days . 
According to government data , Canada ’s positivity rate remains low at 1.4 % , however , less than a month ago the positivity rate was at just 1 % . 
How the government is responding : Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said Wednesday his government is stepping up with millions more in funding for provinces to combat the virus with more testing and contact tracing . 
On Thursday , the province of Ontario announced new restrictions on social gatherings in the Toronto area and Ottawa , the nation ’s capital . 
Private , social gatherings in those regions will now be restricted to 10 people indoors , 25 outdoors although the restrictions do now apply to places like bars and restaurants , movie theaters , gyms and notably schools . 
Public health officials say those businesses and venues have not been associated with a dramatic increase in cases . 
Rather , it ’s private parties and gatherings with friends and family which have led to the rise in cases . 
Ontario will now impose some of the most severe fines in North America for offenders with a $ 7,500 minimum fine for the host and jail time a possibility . 
" This is to send a message for the reckless , careless people who want to hold these parties and put their neighbors and community in jeopardy , so just follow the rules , " said Ford adding , " They must be a few fries short of a happy meal , these people . " 
Other impacted areas : The province of Quebec is also coping with a rise in cases , especially in Montreal . 
Public health officials say there is no definitive evidence of a second wave just yet but that the trend is worrying . 
Quebec has been imposing new but moderate restrictions in recent days , like banning karaoke , responsible for one of the worst outbreaks in the province in recent weeks . 
But health officials say they are still reluctant to go further with new restrictions at this point . 
" We have to have some stability in the data through time to be able to have an adequate appreciation of things because if you react to a peak and the next day it goes back down , you will have over reacted , it ’s like using a cannon to kill a fly , " said Dr . Horacio Arruda , Quebec ’s director of public health , during a news conference Thursday . 
