Conversations around reopening the economy are ramping up . 
Behind the scenes , many Republican governors are expressing concern on how they will navigate a scenario in which President Trump reopens the economy before their states are ready , according to multiple sources in and around these discussions . 
Modeling suggests a slew of red states will not hit their worst points until later this month , making reopening the economy in those areas by early May nearly impossible . 
Most Republican governors have sought to align with Trump during this outbreak , and a demand from the White House to reopen the economy would complicate that mission . 
If there appears to be viable movement towards reopening too early — the administration will face some pushback from their allies . 
According to one source familiar with the conversation among GOP governors , the hope overall right now is that " this is all Trump talk " and that cooler heads — such as his well known coronavirus advisers Dr . Anthony Fauci and Dr . Deborah Birx — will prevail . 
Some background : Trump 's aides have begun intensive discussions on a plan to reopen the US economy as soon as the start of May , according to people familiar with the deliberations . 
This morning on CNN 's New Day , Fauci was asked if he thought social distancing guidelines should be relaxed by May 1 , and responded " the virus kind of decides whether or not it 's going to be appropriate to open or not . " 
Fauci added that prior to re opening the country , he would like to see a " clear indication " that reported cases are going down . 
" One thing you do not want to do is you do not want to get out there prematurely and then wind up — you 're back in the same situation , " Fauci told CNN adding , " we 're looking for the kinds of things that would indicate that we can go forward in a gradual way to essentially reopen the country to a more normal way . " 
In Friday ’s White House briefing , Trump said he listens to everything that both Drs . 
Fauci and Birx say . 
