The coronavirus continues to spread worldwide , sparking alarm and drastic emergency measures , even as the situation stabilizes in China . 
Here are the latest developments : China is stabilizing : The country only reported 19 new cases today , a drastic drop from the peak just a month or two ago , when it was still reporting thousands of new cases per day . 
Yesterday was also the third straight day in which there were zero locally transmitted cases outside of Hubei . 
Xi is in Wuhan : Perhaps the strongest indicator that things are calming in China is Chinese President Xi Jinping 's visit to Wuhan , the epicenter of the outbreak , today . 
Xi will visit medical workers , army troops and police officers , volunteers and patients , and more , state media reported -- a symbolic show of confidence in China 's containment of the virus . 
South Korea slowdown : The number of new cases per day is also dropping in South Korea . 
It 's only been a few days of improvement so it may be too early for celebration -- but the country 's health minister told CNN he was " cautiously expecting we have passed the peak " of the outbreak . 
Italy is locked down : In a complete contrast , Europe is now facing a worsening outbreak . 
All of Italy and its 60 million residents are under total lockdown -- this means restricted movement , school closures , a ban on all public events , and suspended religious services including weddings and funerals . 
The drastic measures were taken in response to a healthcare system overwhelmed by the flood of patients -- but some Italian officials worry it still is not enough . 
US cases are rising : The US now has at least 728 cases and 26 deaths , sparking alarm from local and health officials . 
Many states are declaring states of emergency , and even congressmen are self quarantining after coming in contact with an infected patient . 
Schools nationwide are beginning to close and conduct online classes instead , and large employers like Amazon are asking workers in virus hit areas to work from home . 
All this comes as friction grows between local authorities and the Trump administration , with increasing dissonance between states ' calls for action and federal reassurances . 
