America 's single worst day of new coronavirus cases obliterated US President Donald Trump 's fantasyland vision of a post Covid America -- even as he sowed new diversions in an effort to hide the reality of his leadership void in a deepening national crisis . 
More than 40,500 new cases of Covid 19 were reported on Thursday , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
The numbers superseded the previous darkest day of the pandemic , on April 24 . 
The new data suggests that the aggressive state reopenings championed by Trump , who wants a quick economic reboot to boost his reelection hopes , exacerbated a situation that now seems close to tipping out of control across a swathe of southern states . 
And while the President lives in a bubble of his own obsessive political feuds and the embrace of conservative media that rarely dwells on the virus , the reality of a pandemic that may still be in its early changes is beginning to squeeze in on his world . 
Task force briefing returns : In a sign that the White House needs to get control of the worsening situation , Vice President Mike Pence will chair the first public briefing of the White House coronavirus task force on Friday in two months . 
Senior government public health officials have faded from the scene in recent weeks as Trump has tried to send a message that the US has " prevailed " over the virus and is reopening . 
States in crisis : On Thursday alone , Texas -- the poster child for Trump 's reopening strategy -- paused its transition to restoring normal life , alarmed by rising hospital admissions and a surge in new infections . 
Apple closed stores across Texas , Arizona , Florida , North Carolina and South Carolina to protect customers and workers from virus spikes . 
Dozens of Secret Service agents are now self isolating after several of their colleagues were found to have the virus after traveling to the President 's rally in Oklahoma over the weekend . 
Multiple Trump campaign staffers have taken the same step , after eight of their co workers tested positive in the latest sign that Trump 's plans for a full resumption of campaign rallies are not only reckless but may prove logistically impossible . 
Read the full analysis : 
