As coronavirus pandemic continues to hammer the US economy , House Democrats held off on a planned vote Wednesday night on their $ 2.2 trillion stimulus proposal to allow more time for bipartisan negotiations in a last ditch effort to reach a deal just weeks before Election Day . 
Latest on the negotiations : House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin are still far apart , however , as negotiations continue , according to four sources briefed on the talks . 
Despite optimistic words from Pelosi and Mnuchin , sources briefed on the talks said that reaching an agreement with the backing of Senate GOP leaders and the White House remains a tall order . 
But for now , the two plan to continue to talking , with House Democrats delaying a vote on their own plan to create room for the two sides to come closer to a deal on Thursday . 
The stimulus package : Still , the topline cost of a final package — which had been the defining hurdle throughout weeks of inaction — has narrowed , the people said , with Mnuchin 's proposal running above the $ 1.5 trillion that the Trump administration had signaled it was open to in the talks . 
But it remains short of the current $ 2.2 trillion House Democratic proposal — and it 's far more than what Senate Republicans are willing to accept given that their conference united around a $ 500 billion proposal . 
More importantly , the people said , the actual details of the various pieces remain far from ironed out , with issues like funds for state and local governments and the shape of liability protections still nowhere near agreement . 
Mnuchin told Fox News Wednesday night that President Donald Trump had instructed him and White House chief of staff Mark Meadows to significantly increase the amount of money in a White House proposal , however , he would not say if there 's a magical number that would lead to a deal . 
What comes next : Mnuchin said he would most likely speak with Pelosi again Wednesday night but he did not think there would be significant progress until Thursday , when the two sides plan to continue the conversation to try and add details to the talks and narrow differences . 
" We 're gonna go back and do a little bit more work , " Mnuchin told reporters as he left the Capitol Wednesday . 
" We 've made a lot of progress in a lot of areas . " 
Time is running out , however , to strike a bipartisan deal before Election Day and pressure is running high , with lawmakers facing questions from constituents in need amid the economic and public health fallout from the pandemic . 
Read more here . 
