The first masks arrived on the White House grounds in February by special order of the National Security Council , mobilizing early on to address the emerging threat of the coming coronavirus . 
Job one in their emergency response was to take personal precautions , preparing for the critical work at hand , multiple officials tell CNN . 
But word that some NSC staffers were being told to wear masks quickly made its way back to the West Wing and it was not long before a sharp dictum came down . 
The West Wing wanted to " portray confidence and make the public believe there was absolutely nothing to worry about , " the official said , revealing the image conscious reason for the opposition to masks for the first time . 
The directive opened a schism in the White House complex that would ultimately hinder its ability to contain the spread of the new virus they were now calling Covid 19 . 
Interviews with more than a dozen current and former administration officials show how that fissure appeared and spread even as confirmed cases in the US began to grow . 
The officials all requested anonymity either because they were not authorized to discuss the matter or because they were sharing private conversations with people currently in the administration . 
But they tell a consistent story of how the White House attempts to deal with the virus were dogged by the president 's fixation on one thing : optics . 
The ensuing disaster has now claimed the lives of more than 200,000 Americans , in what may be the most politicized health crisis of the modern presidency . 
The radical polarization that now grips the country traces back to the very first workplace where it really sank in , at the West Wing of the White House . 
White House spokeswoman Sarah Matthews , addressing questions about this story , said that the President " took the virus seriously from the beginning , as evidenced by his administration taking early steps in January to protect the American people . " 
It was Democrats and the media , she says , who were obsessing at the time -- " over the partisan and futile impeachment trial . " 
But several key officials tell a consistent and different story , about image management and the trouble it caused in pandemic response from the very beginning . 
" We lost so much time , " a former administration official said , looking back . 
" The whole thing was mind blowing . 
This could have been so different . " 
