Things are going to drag on in the Senate for a few days . 
Bottom line : There is absolutely no sign right now that a standalone bill on $ 2,000 checks is going to get a vote on the Senate floor . 
It looks like Mc Connell is simply going to run out the clock . 
There were several opportunities on Tuesday when Mc Connell could have made that assurance or let Democrats pass the bill with a unanimous consent agreement that would have shielded his members from having to take a potentially tough vote . 
Mc Connell blocked those efforts . 
Instead , he gave himself an out card down the line — and only if he needs one — by placing on the calendar a bill that would tie a repeal of Section 230 to increasing direct stimulus payments to $ 2,000 for Americans under a certain income level . 
The Kentucky Republican may never bring it up . 
It 's there just in case he needs to put something on the floor . 
Democrats were furious . 
And there 's nothing they can do about it . 
Mc Connell vs . Trump : It 's important to remember that Mc Connell is essentially ignoring Trump 's request at the moment . 
Remember , he never made Trump any promises about what he was or was not going to do on the Senate floor . 
Trump 's statement Sunday night was full of things he thought he 'd won . 
Mc Connell made no such mention on fulfilling those promises in his own statement thanking Trump . 
In a lot of ways , this moment is not that dissimilar to how Mc Connell has managed Trump for four years , letting the President rant and vent only to quietly conduct things the way he thinks is best for his members in his own chamber ( remember how when the tax bill was drafted , Mc Connell ignored Trump 's later requests to bring up health care for the zillionth time ) . 
Stay tuned : Let 's never rule anything out . 
Dynamics change . 
If something from polling in Georgia begins to shift to the point that Mc Connell feels like he needs to give Perdue and Loeffler a vote , he will . 
And he now has one on the calendar he can bring up . 
Cornyn summed it up best when asked if he thought checks would happen : " I 've given up making predictions around here . 
I did not think I 'd be here today , either . 
So , I do not know . 
I do not know the answer . " 
Read more here . 
Suzanne Malveaux reports : 
