Authorities in Berlin have banned this weekend ’s planned protests against the German government ’s coronavirus restrictions , citing concerns about violations of hygiene regulations . 
In a statement , Berlin 's Senate announced : " Today , the assembly authority banned several demonstrations that were to take place next weekend in Berlin , " adding that " the expected circle of participants will be in violation of the current infection protection ordinance . " 
The Senate said that protests on August 1 had shown " that the participants had deliberately ignored existing hygiene rules and corresponding requirements . " 
Andreas Geisel , a senior official in the state of Berlin said : " This is not a decision against freedom of assembly , but a decision for infection protection . 
We are still in the middle of a pandemic with increasing numbers of infections . 
This cannot be denied . 
We must therefore weigh up the fundamental right to freedom of assembly against the right to the integrity of life . 
We have chosen life . " 
Organizers of the protest had planned to march through the center of the German capital on Saturday . 
Police told CNN as many as 17,000 participants were expected to march , with thousands more expected at a rally afterwards . 
" I am not prepared to accept a second time that Berlin is misused as a stage for Corona [ virus ] deniers ... and right wing extremists , " Geisel went on to say , adding that : " The state will not be fooled . " 
Here 's some background : Thousands of protesters rallied in Berlin on August 1 to demonstrate against measures imposed in Germany to stem the coronavirus pandemic . 
Police broke up the demonstration , which was attended by some 20,000 people , on the basis that organizers failed to ensure health and safety regulations were followed . 
Most protesters did not wear face masks or adhere to physical distancing rules , police said . 
German chancellor Angela Merkel is set to meet with the country ’s 16 state premiers on Thursday to discuss the country 's coronavirus response amid rising numbers of infections . 
