Children carry coronavirus in their noses and throats for weeks , even if they do not show any symptoms , researchers in South Korea reported Friday . 
Although their study does not necessarily demonstrate that children are transmitting the virus to others , they suggested this might be responsible for " silent spread ’ of the virus in communities . 
The study , published in the journal JAMA Pediatrics on Friday , included data on 91 children in South Korea diagnosed with Covid 19 between Feb . 18 and March 31 . 
Among those patients , 20 of them — or 22 % — did not show any obvious symptoms and remained asymptomatic throughout the study . 
Other patients experienced fever , cough , diarrhea , abdominal pain and loss of smell or taste , among other symptoms . 
The duration of their symptoms appeared to vary , ranging from one to 36 days . 
But genetic material from the virus was detectable in the children for a mean of 17.6 days . 
Virus could be found in the children who had no symptoms for 14 days on average . 
This does not necessarily mean the children were spreading virus , Calum Semple , a professor in child health and outbreak medicine at the University of Liverpool who was not involved in the study , said in a statement distributed by the UK based Science Media Center . 
" The presence of the virus genetic material in swabs the respiratory tract need not equate with transmission , particularly in people who do not have important symptoms such as cough and sneeze , " Semple said . 
It 's possible that virus persisted in the children for even longer than the time documented . 
And more research also is needed to determine whether similar findings would emerge among a larger group of children from other parts of the world . 
The data showed that only 8.5 % of those patients with symptoms were diagnosed with Covid 19 at the time their symptoms began . 
Most — 66.2 % — of those with symptoms had symptoms that were not recognized before they were diagnosed and 25.4 % developed symptoms after they were diagnosed . 
