France has reached the same daily level of coronavirus cases as when its lockdown began easing on May 11 , Health Minister Olivier Veran told the French newspaper Le Parisien in an interview Sunday . 
He said the country is not yet in a second wave of the pandemic , but cases are rising sharply . 
" We have seen , for a few days , the number of positive cases rise sharply while it has been falling for 13 weeks . 
It has reached the same daily level today as when the confinement was lifted , " Veran told Le Parisien . 
Surge in young patients : Veran said screening has shown a large number of patients are younger than the previous wave , and in a tweet Sunday appealed to young people in particular to maintain vigilant . 
" The rate of asymptomatics is extremely high . 
This is particularly the case in Ile de France where we see young people arriving who have been infected without knowing how , " Veran told the newspaper . 
Possibility of local lockdowns : French Prime Minister Jean Castex said Saturday that he wants to avoid a national lockdown at all costs because it would have a too negative impact , socially and economically . 
He suggested France could instead have localized lockdowns , as have been used in Germany and the UK . 
On Friday , the Health Ministry said the coronavirus reproductive rate in France has risen to 1.3 . " With a number of daily cases exceeding 1,000 , we have returned to levels comparable to those at the end of the confinement period . 
We have thus erased a good part of the progress that we had made in the first weeks of deconfinement , " a press release from the Ministry said , adding that " the virus is circulating throughout the country . " 
France has had more than 217,000 confirmed infections and more than 30,000 deaths , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
The French Health Ministry has now scrapped the charge for coronavirus PCR tests , which determines if someone is infected with Covid 19 , to encourage more people to get tested . 
The French government announced last week it will distribute 40 million face masks to the poorest citizens after mask wearing was made compulsory in all indoor spaces in the country . 
