Over the weekend , the United Kingdom reversed plans to loosen restrictions over Christmas and announced strict lockdowns across much of the country , citing concerns about a variant of the coronavirus believed to be much more infectious . 
Alarm over the new variant , which was first identified in the southeast of England , has resulted in British travelers being cut off from much of Europe and other parts of the world as countries imposed restrictions on travel from the UK . 
While the new variant of Covid 19 is believed to originate in England , it has also been identified in Denmark , the Netherlands and in Australia , World Health Organization Covid 19 technical lead Maria Van Kerkhove said on Sunday . 
Researchers are investigating a similar variant of the virus in South Africa , prompting additional travel restrictions from there . 
Remember : No evidence the new variants are any more virulent , meaning they do not cause more severe disease . 
They do not appear to affect the effects of treatments or the protection offered by vaccines Here 's a list of countries that have banned travel from the UK so far : Russia : Russia is suspending flights to and from the UK for a week starting midnight , Moscow time on Dec . 22 , state run news agency RIA Novosti reported citing Russian coronavirus response headquarters . 
Jordan : The government has decided to suspend all direct and indirect ( transit ) passenger flights from the United Kingdom starting Monday and lasting through Jan . 3 . 
The news was announced in a statement from Jordanian Government spokesperson and Minister of State for Media Affairs Ali Al Ayed Oman : Oman will shut down its air , sea and land borders starting Tuesday Dec . 22 , for a period of one week to monitor the new variant of coronavirus reported by the United Kingdom , Oman state news agency reported . 
Argentina : According to a joint statement published Sunday by the Argentinian Health and Interior Ministries , Argentina will only allow one more flight from Britain to land at the international airport in Buenos Aires on Monday morning . 
Later flights have been canceled . 
Belgium : Belgium will block travelers from the United Kingdom on Monday because of the coronavirus variant that has emerged there , Prime Minister Alexander De Croo said Sunday morning . 
Bulgaria : Prime Minister Boyko Borissov convened a working meeting on Sunday with members of his Cabinet in response to the new variant , during which it was decided to temporarily suspend air travel between Bulgaria and the United Kingdom starting Monday until Jan . 31 , his office said . 
Canada : Canada says it will ban most passenger travel from the UK beginning midnight Sunday for at least 72 hours . 
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau confirmed the news in a tweet Sunday night saying it was being done to " protect " Canadians across the country . 
Chile : The Chilean government announced that all flights to and from the UK will be suspended beginning on Tuesday , and that travelers who have been to the UK in the last 14 days would have to self quarantine . 
Colombia : Colombian President Ivan Duque similarly announced that all flights between Colombia and the UK will be suspended , starting on Monday . 
Travelers who have been to the UK in the last 14 days will also have to self quarantine upon entering Colombia , Duque told reporters . 
Czech Republic : The Czech government is halting flights from the UK as of 6 a.m . ET Monday in reaction to the new variant of the coronavirus in the UK , a government statement said early Monday . 
El Salvador : El Salvador bans anyone entering the country from UK and South Africa . 
Estonia : The government of Estonia announced a suspension of air traffic between Estonia and the UK on Sunday , which goes into effect at midnight until the end of the year . 
France : French Prime Minister Jean Castex announced a 48 hour ban on the movement of people from the UK to France starting Sunday night and applying to all methods of transport . 
Germany : The German government said it is planning to restrict travel to and from the UK and South Africa because of the new coronavirus variant . 
Hong Kong : Hong Kong will ban all passengers who stayed in the United Kingdom for more than two hours in the past 14 days from arriving in the city starting Tuesday , Secretary for Food and Health Sophia Chan said during a Monday press conference . 
Iran : Iran announced the suspension of flights to and from the UK for two weeks on Sunday . 
Israel : Israel ’s government bans flights from UK , Denmark and South Africa . 
Italy : Italy is suspending flights between the country and the United Kingdom due to the new Covid 19 variant identified in England , Italian Minister for Foreign Affairs Luigi Di Maio announced on Sunday . 
Kuwait : Kuwait suspended flights arriving from the United Kingdom starting Monday . 
Latvia : Latvia has suspended travel to and from the UK from December 21 to January 1 , the Latvian Ministry of Transportation announced in a statement on Sunday . 
Lithuania : Fights from the UK will be suspended , Teh prime Minister tweeted . 
Luxembourg : Luxembourg has temporarily suspended flights from the UK after a new variant of coronavirus was found there , according to a government statement Sunday . 
Netherlands : The Netherlands will ban all passenger flights coming from the United Kingdom . 
Republic of Ireland : The Republic of Ireland is banning flights from Britain on Monday and Tuesday , the government announced Sunday . 
Peru : Peruvian President Francisco Sagasti announced a two week ban on flights arriving from Europe in a national address Monday morning . 
Sagasti also banned foreigners from coming to Peru if they have been in the United Kingdom for the last two weeks . 
Sweden : Sweden banning travel from the UK , the country ’s Foreign Minister said on Sunday . 
Turkey : Turkey has banned flights from the UK , South Africa , the Netherlands and Denmark , the country ’s state owned Anadolu Agency reported late Sunday . 
The following countries have not banned travel but are imposing restrictions : Greece : Greece will impose a 7 day quarantine to all travelers arriving from the United Kingdom starting Monday over concerns about the new Covid 19 variant identified in the UK , the Greek Civil Protection department announced Sunday . 
Portugal : Portugal has imposed restrictions on flights from UK . 
Only Portuguese nationals will be allowed to travel , and they must have a negative Covid 19 test , according to the country ’s Interior Minister . 
Spain : Spain announced it is reinforcing airports to verify PCR tests for people arriving from the UK , according to a tweet from the government on Sunday . 
Walter Reed scientists in the US still expect the vaccine will be effective against this new variant , said Dr . Nelson Michael , director of the Center for Infectious Diseases Research at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research . 
The Walter Reed scientists said they expect to know in the next few days if there 's a concern that the coronavirus vaccines might not work against it . 
