President Trump signed the massive $ 2.3 trillion coronavirus relief and government funding bill into law last night , averting a government shutdown that was set to begin on Tuesday , and extending billions of dollars in coronavirus aid to millions . 
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi had seized on Trump 's call for $ 2,000 checks last week and brought to the floor a standalone bill that would have boosted the amount for relief checks on Thursday . 
House Republicans , however , objected to the bill over deficit concerns . 
The Democratic led House is set to vote on the expansion of the direct payments today . 
Here are key things to know about the bill and what happens next : Trump 's signature of the $ 900 billion Covid relief package extends unemployment benefits for millions of jobless gig workers and independent contractors , as well as the long term unemployed . 
The estimated 12 million people in two key pandemic unemployment programs , who were facing their last payment this weekend , will now receive benefits for another 11 weeks . 
Plus , all those collecting jobless payments will receive a $ 300 weekly federal boost through mid March . 
However , because Trump did not sign the bill on Saturday , those in the Pandemic Unemployment Assistance and the Pandemic Emergency Unemployment Compensation programs will likely not receive a payment for the final week of the year . 
And the $ 300 federal enhancement may only last 10 weeks instead of 11 weeks for most folks . 
That 's because states ca not provide benefits for weeks that start before programs are authorized , but the legislation calls for the extra payments to end on March 14 . 
Trump signaled in a statement Sunday night that he signed the coronavirus relief bill only after securing a commitment for the Senate to consider legislation to increase stimulus checks from $ 600 to $ 2,000 . 
Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell , however , did not reference that commitment in his own statement Sunday night praising the President for signing the relief bill . 
Some more context : The Covid 19 relief legislation was passed by Congress last Monday and was flown to Mar a Lago on Thursday to await Trump 's signature . 
But after sitting on the sidelines during the negotiations , Trump emerged with an eleventh hour complaint that a separate provision in the deal , which the President 's own White House helped broker , would only provide up to $ 600 in direct payments . 
Trump wanted to send out $ 2,000 checks . 
Read more here . 
