Train stations , museums , an Olympic venue , a Disney resort and a major fast food chain are among the sites to have shut their doors in China as officials race to contain the spread of the Wuhan coronavirus . 
Here 's some of them : Beijing Juyongguan Great Wall Scenic Area A section of the Great Wall of China closest to the capital city will be shut from this weekend , officials said Friday . 
The wall is one of the oldest existing man made structures . 
It is more than 2,000 years old and a world travel must see that ranks alongside Egypt 's pyramids and Stonehenge in the UK . 
The Bird 's Nest Beijing 's National Stadium , also known as the Bird 's Nest , was closed on Friday , according to Reuters . 
The stadium , which was designed by Ai Weiwei , was a venue for the 2008 Olympic Games . 
The Forbidden City The Palace Museum , commonly known as the Forbidden City , is one of the capital 's best known attractions . 
According to Visit Beijing , which is supervised by Beijing Municipal Culture and Tourism Bureau , the UNESCO World Heritage site will be closed for an unspecified period . 
National Museum of China The museum , which flanks Tiananmen Square in Beijing , will also be closed " in an effort to prevent and control " the virus , Visit Beijing writes . 
The museum bills itself as the largest in the world . 
Its 48 galleries house more than 1 million exhibits featuring 5,000 years of Chinese art and culture . 
Ming Tombs The collection of mausoleums , built by the emperors of the Ming Dynasty , will close on Saturday , officials said . 
The Ming Tombs sit on a plain at the foot of Tianshou Mountain . 
Thirteen of the dynasty 's 16 emperors were buried here -- along with their empresses , princes and favorite concubines -- and prepared for the afterlife with an amazing display of wealth . 
Yinshan Pagoda Forest The forest , which contains a number of 12 century pagodas built to house Buddhist relics , will be shut . 
Hubei province Mc Donald 's The American fast food chain will suspend operations in five cities in Hubei province , according to a statement posted on its website Friday . 
Wuhan Tianhe International Airport On January 23 , government officials announced the temporary closure of Wuhan Tianhe International Airport . 
The airport is the only one in the mid China region to have direct flights to five different continents . 
All train tickets in and out of Wuhan have also been suspended , while multiple international airlines have canceled flights to the city . 
Shanghai Shanghai Disney Resort Disney is closing down its mega theme park in China over the Lunar New Year holiday . 
Shanghai Disney Resort made the announcement on its official website on Friday , saying the closure was " in response to the prevention and control of the disease outbreak . " 
The resort said it will refund guests for admission fees , hotel bookings and other pre purchased entertainment tickets . 
It did not say when the park would reopen . 
Read more here 
