The Mayor of Milan , Beppe Sala , expressed his horror at images of locals going for evening strolls in the Navigli area of the Italian city despite coronavirus restrictions still requiring social distancing . 
On Thursday evening many people were pictured strolling along the canals as restaurants and bars mount continued pressure on the government to reopen . 
" When it ’s time to thank the Milanese for their virtuous behavior I am always the first to do it and I also like it . 
But there are times when you get really p****ed off and this is one of those moments . 
Yesterday 's images along the canals are shameful , " Sala said Friday during a live broadcast on Facebook . 
According to the government ’s latest decree , since Monday -- when phase 2 of the coronavirus containment phase began -- Italians can leave their home only to go to work , for health reasons , for necessity ( such as buying food , visiting relatives ) , or to carry out sports or physical activities outdoors . 
Gatherings are prohibited and people must maintain a one meter distance from others . 
Milan is the capital of Lombardy , the Italian region hit the hardest by coronavirus . 
Since the start of the epidemic , 14,745 coronavirus deaths have been registered in the region : that is almost half of the total number of deaths registered in Italy ( 29,958 ) , according to the latest figures from the Civil Protection Department . 
The Mayor stressed that the city needs to get back up on its feet and that he supports " those who go to work and struggle to make ends meet , " not " those who have fun . " 
" We are not only in crisis from the health point of view and we have seen how much the pandemic has affected this city . 
But we are also in a profound socio economic crisis . 
Milan needs to go back to work . 
This is the point . 
It is not a desire to reopen , it is a necessity , " Sala said . 
The Mayor announced that checks will be increased Friday and he issued an ultimatum : " Either things change today or tomorrow I will take measures , I will close the area " and prohibit bars to provide takeaway . 
