As the coronavirus pandemic accelerates across the United States , conditions could worsen on the West Coast , in the Northeast and in the Mid Atlantic states over the next several weeks , according to a new forecast from the Children ’s Hospital of Philadelphia ( CHOP ) Policy Lab . 
The CHOP Policy Lab will begin releasing weekly findings from its COVID Lab county level forecasts on the pandemic , the lab said Wednesday on its website . 
It noted that hospitalizations , ICU admissions and ventilator use are now rising in all 50 states . 
Growing cases : The model is predicting " substantial growth " in Covid 19 cases over the next four weeks in the northeast and south through the mid Atlantic region , " where dire trends previously seen in the Midwest have now set in , " the lab said . 
The forecast noted that mitigation efforts in and around New York City and Boston have " slowed but not abated " an increase in hospitalizations and ICU admissions in the cities . 
The CHOP Policy Lab forecast is also projecting " significant case growth " along the West Coast in major cities in California , as well as in Portland and Seattle into mid December . 
Fast filling ICU beds : " In every Midwestern state , COVID 19 patients are occupying more than 25 % of ICU beds , " the lab reported . 
In four states -- Montana , New Mexico , North Dakota and South Dakota -- coronavirus patients have filled up 50 % or more of all available ICU beds . 
" We suspect that in many localities across these states , ICUs are near , at or over capacity , " the forecast said . 
The forecast also noted that in Wisconsin , one of the earliest states to see an explosive growth in Covid 19 cases this fall , may be nearing a peak in transmissions , but hospitalizations and ICU admissions have not yet stabilized . 
At least half of the 819 counties in the lab ’s forecast are seeing a testing positivity rate of 9 % , a measure of how prevalent positive coronavirus cases are compared to the number of tests administered . 
