The US Food and Drug Administration needs to be clearer and more consistent when it gives emergency use authorization to coronavirus treatments and vaccines , the Government Accountability Office said in a report released Tuesday . 
The GAO reviewed the entire federal government effort to develop coronavirus vaccines and treatments , and came away with one main message : The FDA needs to do a better job of explaining and justifying its decisions . 
" FDA should identify ways to uniformly disclose to the public the information from its scientific review of safety and effectiveness data when issuing EUAs for therapeutics and vaccines . 
HHS neither agreed nor disagreed with the recommendation , but said it shared GAO 's goal of transparency and would explore approaches to achieve this goal , " the GAO said . 
The FDA has not yet been asked to issue an EUA for any vaccine , but at least two companies – Moderna and Pfizer – are expected to apply within days . 
The FDA has promised a thorough review but the GAO said the agency ’s record on granting EUAs to treatment for coronavirus showed it had not always been clear or consistent . 
But the FDA appeared to have taken the GAO recommendation on board . 
" I am announcing today that our drug and biological product centers intend , to the extent appropriate and permitted by law , to publicly post their reviews of the scientific data and information supporting the issuance , revision or revocation of EUAs for all drug and biological products , including vaccines , as part of our COVID 19 response , " FDA Commissioner Dr . Stephen Hahn said in a statement also released on Tuesday . 
Emergency use authorization is a quicker way to get a medical product on the market in a health emergency than the traditional approval process , which can take weeks or months . 
EUAs are usually time limited and based on less data than full approvals . 
While the GAO did not accuse the FDA of cutting corners on some of its coronavirus EUAs , it said the FDA could have better explained its decisions . 
Some background : The FDA authorized the anti malarial drugs hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine – and later revoked that EUA – as well as convalescent plasma taken from coronavirus survivors , the antiviral drug remdesivir , and Eli Lilly and Co ’s monoclonal antibody bamlanivimab . 
