Singapore has just begun to get its second wave of coronavirus under control . 
Now , it 's on track to face its worst ever outbreak of another viral infection : dengue . 
More than 14,000 dengue cases have been reported in the city state since the start of the year , according to the National Environment Agency ( NEA ) . 
The total number for the whole year is expected to exceed the 22,170 cases reported in 2013 -- the largest dengue outbreak in Singapore 's history , the agency said . 
What is dengue ? 
Dengue is a viral infection transmitted by the Aedes mosquito , the same insect responsible for spreading Zika , chikungunya and yellow fever . 
It is commonly found in hot , wet regions of the tropics and subtropics during the rainy months . 
Only about 25 % of those infected show symptoms , which include high fever , severe headaches , muscle and joint pains . 
Extreme cases can bring bleeding , breathing difficulties , organ failure , and potentially death . 
Why is it so bad this year ? 
Dengue cases have grown dramatically worldwide , increasing 30 fold in the past 50 years . 
There are an estimated 100-400 million infections each year , and about half of the world 's population is now at risk , according to the World Health Organization . 
Scientists say hotter , wetter weather brought on by climate change has created ideal conditions for female mosquitoes to lay their eggs . 
Not only are there more mosquitoes , but the rapid urbanization occurring in many Asian nations means that susceptible populations are living in closer contact with disease carrying insects . 
Have lockdown measures made it worse ? 
Another potential factor that worsened the dengue outbreak this year could be the lockdown measures imposed for coronavirus , according to Luo Dahai , associate professor of Infection and Immunity at Nanyang Technological University . 
In April , a second wave of infections broke out in Singapore among migrant workers living in packed dormitories , sending daily new infections from below 100 to above 1000 at its peak . 
To contain its spread , the government issued a stay at home order and closed down non essential workplaces and schools . 
These restrictive measures , known as the " circuit breaker , " lasted from April 7 to June 1 . 
" When more people stay at home all the days , there could be more residential mosquito breeding and more opportunities for ' blood meals ' , " Luo said . 
Read the full story here . 
