The White House plans to hold indoor holiday receptions in the coming weeks despite the advice of public health professionals urging Americans to sacrifice their normal holiday gatherings to curb the spread of the virus . 
US officials have warned against large gatherings on Thursday ’s Thanksgiving holiday , instead urging Americans to stay at home and forgo travelling to see relatives as Covid cases topped 12 million over the weekend . 
The White House said President Donald Trump and his wife , Melania , will remain in Washington this week , skipping their annual Thanksgiving at Trump ’s private club in Florida , and the first lady plans to hold a holiday reception a few days later on 30 November , according to an invitation obtained by ABC News . 
It follows a series of White House events in recent months that have been linked to outbreaks , including Trump ’s own bout with the disease from late September into early October . 
A White House aide and four others have tested positive in recent days . 
Stephanie Grisham , a spokeswoman for the first lady , said the White House would provide the " safest environment possible " for the Christmas and Hanukkah celebrations with smaller guest lists than years past , masks " required and available , " social distancing encouraged and hand sanitiser provided . 
" Guests will enjoy food individually plated by chefs at plexiglass protected food stations . 
All passed beverages will be covered , " she said in a statement . 
" Attending the parties will be a very personal choice . 
It is a longstanding tradition for people to visit and enjoy the cheer and iconic decor of the annual White House Christmas celebrations . " 
Health professionals within the administration have advised against large indoor gatherings . 
" We want everyone to understand that these holiday parties can be super spreader events , " US surgeon general Jerome Adams told ABC News , urging celebrations to be held outdoors with as few people as possible and pointing to recommendations by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . 
" These apply to the White House , they apply to the American people , they apply to everyone , " Adams said . 
While the number of US air travellers was still down about 60 % compared to a year ago , federal transportation officials on Monday reported screening the highest number of passengers since March . 
