President Trump claimed governors are receiving " everything they need " from the federal government and that " tremendous amounts " of critical medical supplies are available for states that need them . 
" The governors are working very , very hard and we are supporting them 100 % , everything they need they get , and we are taking good care , " Trump said . 
" We have tremendous supplies and a great supply chain . 
Whether it 's ventilators or gowns or just about anything they need . " 
Facts First : Trump is overselling the federal pandemic response . 
Some governors have what they need , but others have said the Trump administration is falling short . 
And even though he says " tremendous supplies " are available , some hospitals and health care workers still do not have enough protective gear , and experts say Trump ’s slow decision making is partially to blame . 
The country is in better shape than a few months ago , but there are still reports of equipment shortages . 
Some frontline health care workers are still rationing their personal protective gear . 
CNN previously reported the Trump administration has not fully utilized the Defense Production Act to spur manufacturing of critical supplies like masks , gowns and gloves . 
Some efforts are underway , but experts say it ’s not enough and that the law was invoked far too late . 
Because of that , smaller physicians ’ offices and assisted living facilities are currently facing shortages . 
Regarding the governors , Trump is exaggerating . 
CNN reached out to governors ’ offices across the country earlier this month , after Trump made a similar claim about governors having everything they needed . 
Democratic governors from Washington state , Colorado , Michigan and Illinois said they needed more supplies from the federal government . 
One Republican governor told CNN that Trump ’s comment was accurate . 
Trump is a repeat offender on this front . 
He also said in April that governors were satisfied with the supplies they received , even as governors from both parties said they faced shortages of medical equipment . 
