Americans are testing positive for coronavirus in record breaking numbers across the US and the surge in cases is slowing down the time tests take . 
Labs across the country are now facing what seems like an almost " infinite " demand , one expert says . 
As the country approaches 4 million cases , Trump has repeatedly responded with the argument that the large number of US cases is evidence of the country 's success with testing . 
But per CNN 's fact check reporting , Trump 's own officials and his Republican allies have acknowledged it 's not true that a rising number of tests is the reason the number of cases has skyrocketed over the last month . 
One telling piece of evidence that the spike is genuine : the percentage of people testing positive , a key measure of the true spread of the virus , has also spiked . 
Giroir , who heads the US 's testing efforts , said yesterday that there are probably fewer cases compared to April because of more testing , but " there is no question we are having a surge right now . 
We are approaching this with extreme seriousness . " 
Giroir said yesterday that in June , states " really crushed " their testing goals of over 16 million tests , and now are routinely doing 750,000 to 800,000 tests per day . 
Speaking in a hearing on Capitol Hill on July 2 , Giroir told lawmakers that the US had performed more than 35 million Covid 19 tests and is now averaging " over 550,000 tests per day . " 
With regards to the national stockpile , Giroir said he estimated the nation will have the capacity to perform 40 to 50 million tests per month by the fall . 
But even these current numbers are well below the number of tests experts said the US should be doing now . 
In early May , a team at the Harvard Global Health Institute said the US should be testing at least 900,000 people a day by May 15 . 
According to a different group of experts , whose work was also supported by the Rockefeller Foundation , the US needed to deliver at least 5 million tests per day by early June to begin reopening . 
It said as many as 20 million tests per day would be needed to fully remobilize the economy , ideally by late July . 
The " Roadmap to Pandemic Resilience , " published by Harvard University 's Edmond J . Safra Center for Ethics , argues that without widespread testing , state and local officials will get caught in cycles of opening up and then clamping down again on commerce and free movement . 
According to Covid 19 testing data from The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention last updated on Monday : More than 48 million Covid 19 tests have been reported in the US . 
The CDC dashboard notes that the agency includes both viral tests and antibody tests in its testing data . 
More than 4.5 million of those tests have been positive . 
Remember : Viral tests tell you if you currently have an infection with the virus that causes Covid 19 . 
Antibody blood tests check for antibodies , which show if you had a previous infection with the virus . 
Those numbers represent the number of tests performed , and a single person may have been tested more than once . 
With reporting from CNN 's Amanda Watts , Daniel Dale Holmes Lybrand 
