Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell announced Tuesday that the Republican stimulus proposal will likely include $ 105 billion in funding to help reopen schools across the country . 
In comparison , Democratic leadership has proposed $ 430 billion as part of their next relief package to help schools reopen . 
Mc Connel broadly outlined what will be in the GOP proposal of the next Covid 19 relief bill in a floor speech on Tuesday morning , which he said " are just some of the elements being discussed between Republicans and the administration " and will be released " very soon . " 
He said it will likely include another round of direct payments to Americans and more targeted Paycheck Protection Program ( PPP ) funding . 
" We ’ll also be proposing a targeted second round of the PPP with a special eye toward hard hit businesses , " Mc Connell said . 
" Speaking of building on what worked in the CARES Act , we want another round of direct payments , " he continued . 
The sticking points : Direct payments to Americans continues to be be a point of dispute as President Trump continues to push for it , while many Hill Republicans are hesitant . 
" Direct payments to help American families keep driving our national comeback , " he said . 
" Helping to create more American jobs is an urgent moral priority , and these are just some of the policies we 're discussing that will help that happen . " 
The Kentucky Republican did not mention in his floor speech whether a payroll tax cut would be included in the bill , which has also been a point of contention between Trump and Congressional Republicans . 
Trump has continued to tout the idea , while most Republicans have expressed they do not support a payroll tax cut . 
Mc Connell repeated his red line for liability protections in his floor remarks . 
He also mentioned there would be funding toward a vaccine , hospitals and testing . 
Healthcare is the " third major focus " of the bill , he reiterated . 
" The federal government will continue to support hospitals , providers , and testing , " Mc Connell said . 
