CNN readers from around the world have asked more than 90,000 questions about coronavirus . 
Here are the answers to some of the most popular questions : Q : Can coronavirus stick to clothes ? 
Do I need to wash my clothes right after encountering other people , like at the grocery store or while jogging ? 
A : " I do not think you need to , " CNN Chief Medical Correspondent Dr . Sanjay Gupta said . 
Coronavirus can stay alive for up to three days on stainless steel and plastic . 
But clothing " is probably more like cardboard — it ’s more absorbent , so the virus is unlikely to stay and last that long , " Gupta said . 
While coronavirus can stay alive on cardboard for up to 24 hours , viruses generally do not stick well on surfaces that are in motion . 
" If you look at how viruses move through air , they kind of want to move around objects , " Gupta said . 
" They do not want to necessarily land on objects . 
So if you ’re moving as human body through the air … ( it ’s ) unlikely to stick to your clothes . " 
Q : Could I infect my pets with coronavirus , or vice versa ? 
Can someone get infected by touching an animal ’s fur ? 
Should I get my pet tested for coronavirus ? 
A : There have been some reports of animals infected by coronavirus — including two pets in New York and eight big cats at the Bronx Zoo . 
Most of those infections came from contact with people who had coronavirus , like a zoo employee who was an asymptomatic carrier . 
But according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , there is no evidence that animals play a significant role in spreading the virus to humans . 
Therefore , at this time , routine testing of animals for Covid 19 is not recommended . 
As always , it ’s best to wash your hands after touching an animal ’s fur and before touching your face . 
And if your pet appears to be sick , call your veterinarian . 
Q : Why ca not we just test everyone in the US ? 
If we isolate all the asymptomatic carriers , could not the rest of us go back to work ? 
A : Doctors say it ’s not realistic to test all people in the US , especially since many states are still struggling to get enough tests or testing supplies . 
So in order for the economy to reopen and stay open , the US must triple the number of tests performed every day — from 150,000 tests a day to at least 500,000 , three Harvard researchers found . 
And the proportion of test results that come back positive needs to be much lower . 
About 20 % of US test results have been positive , which is " clearly way too high , " said Dr . Thomas Tsai , one of the Harvard researchers . 
The World Health Organization said an adequate range of positive test results would be 3 % to 12 % . 
Germany and South Korea have already met that goal , Tsai said . 
