There are at least 139,733 cases of coronavirus in the U.S . as of 6 am ET Monday , according to CNN 's tally of US cases that are detected and tested through US public health systems . 
At least 2,429 people have died in total in the US from coronavirus . 
New York approaches grim milestone : The state of New York is approaching 1,000 deaths , while the states of Hawaii and Wyoming have yet to report any deaths . 
Trump extends federal social distancing guidelines to April 30 : Americans will be encouraged to avoid leaving their houses and keep working from home , as infections rise across the country . 
" The better you do , the faster this whole nightmare will end , " President Donald Trump said Sunday . 
Up to 100,000 people could die of virus , expert says : The coronavirus could infect more than a million Americans and kill up to 100,000 people in the country , Dr Anthony Fauci , a leading member of the US coronavirus taskforce , told reporters Sunday . 
" What we ’re trying to do is not to let that happen , " he said . 
And from around the world : Italy is on the verge of 100,000 cases : The coronavirus is spreading rapidly across Europe , with the worst affected countries still Italy , Spain and Germany . 
With more than 97,000 cases of the virus , Italy is likely to soon become the second country in the world to break the 100,000 mark after the United States . 
First royal coronavirus death : Spain ’s María Teresa of Bourbon Parma has become the first royal to die from coronavirus , according to a statement from her brother Prince Sixto Enrique . 
The Princess , a distant cousin of Spain 's King Felipe , was 86 and died in Paris on Thursday , her brother said . 
Moscow goes into quarantine : From Monday , the Russian capital will impose a citywide quarantine on all residents regardless of age . 
People will not be able to leave their homes except to get groceries or medical help . 
UK coronavirus outbreak showing signs of slowing , according to an epidemiologist : The coronavirus outbreak in the UK is showing early signs of slowing , according to Neil Ferguson , a professor of mathematical biology at Imperial College London , who said the development of an antibody test will be " critical " to getting more accurate data on the extent of the outbreak . 
