Spain passed another grim milestone in its coronavirus outbreak on Thursday , reporting that more than 10,000 have now died in the country as a result of the virus . 
The Health Ministry said it recorded 950 new deaths in the past 24 hours , the highest single day increase the country has seen so far . 
Its total death tally is now 10,003 . 
But there was some cause for cautious optimism in the country , whose devastating outbreak appears to be slowing . 
The 10.5 % rise reported Thursday is similar to Wednesday ’s increase , and smaller in percentage terms than any recorded in the past two weeks . 
It comes after the country 's Health Minister said the curve of new cases in Spain has come under control , and that the drastic emergency measures put in place to lock down the country are working . 
" The data shows us that the curve has stabilized , " Salvador Illa said in the government 's Thursday press conference . 
" That we have achieved the primary objective of reaching the peak of the curve and that now we are starting the phase of deceleration . " 
Spain ’s government has come under criticism from opposition parties , some health workers and unions for reported shortages of ICU facilities , lack of sufficient personal protective gear and overstretched health workers . 
Illa warned that the country 's health service remains under strain , saying : " Even observing a decrease in the number of admissions , the long stays in these units produce an effect of accumulation of patients because of which there still remains difficult weeks for our health system . " 
But officials have indicated that Spain 's harsh lockdown measures are having the desired effect . 
Health official María José Sierra said on Wednesday that the lower case numbers help " evaluate the measures we ’ve been taking very positively , " and that in many communities around the country the government has seen pressure on intensive care units ease . 
Spain has been one of the world 's worst hit countries , trailing only Italy in total deaths from Covid 19 , and behind Italy and the United States in total reported cases . 
Meanwhile , Spaniards continue to grapple with the devastating economic impact of the pandemic . 
The nation registered an increase in unemployment of 302,265 people in March compared to the previous month , according to Spanish Labor Ministry data released Thursday . 
This increase represents the largest monthly rise since records began , Labor Minister Yolanda Diaz said at a press conference in Madrid on Thursday . 
She called the increase in unemployment " absolutely exceptional " and " historic . " 
