Before the pandemic , Lum Chai used to go to the park and drink beers with friends to escape his tiny living quarters . 
Now the 45 year old walks the city 's streets alone to kill time and keep away from his neighbors . 
Vigilantly practicing social distancing at home is not an option for Lum . 
He lives in one of Hong Kong 's " cage homes , " subdivided apartments that often have space for only a bed and some clothes . 
His closest neighbor is just a few feet away , inside the same room . 
Cage homes are usually smaller than 100 square feet , only 25 square feet larger than most of the city 's prison cells . 
Bathrooms are mostly communal and often there are no kitchens -- just plug in hot plates . 
Units are mostly divided by makeshift or removable walls . 
Lum , who is unemployed , said he pays 1,800 Hong Kong dollars ( $ 232 ) for an apartment divided between 10 people . 
Lum 's situation is extreme , but not unusual . 
Nine in 10 people in Hong Kong live in an area smaller than 753 square feet -- or 70 square meters -- and yet pay some of the highest rents and property prices in the world . 
The average cost of a home was more than $ 1.2 million last year , according to real estate investment firm CBRE . 
To make things worse , many public areas are closed due to the pandemic . 
Libraries are shuttered . 
Jungle gyms in parks are taped off . 
Restaurants have slashed capacity , and bars have been forced to close , unless they serve food . 
Public gatherings are limited to four people . 
Despite having had the virus since January , Hong Kong has recorded fewer than 1,050 infections and 4 deaths , so few citizens disagree with the restrictions . 
But that does not make them easy to live with -- especially for those like Lum who ca not easily stay home . 
" I 'm so lonely , " Lum said . 
" There is not that same atmosphere on the streets like there was before . 
So few people sit in the parks . 
People used to watch the children play and the elderly play badminton . " 
Read more here . 
