In the US , a Missouri election judge who came to work despite testing positive for Covid 19 died in her sleep after a 15 hour shift at the polls , the director of her county ’s election office said Friday . 
The woman worked election day as an election judge supervisor at Memorial Hall in Blanchette Park in the St Louis suburb of St Charles . 
Officials do not yet know if the virus was the cause of death . 
County officials did not release her name , citing privacy laws . 
She tested positive on 30 October but ignored advice to isolate and worked alongside nine other election judges . 
More than 1,800 people voted at the precinct . 
Judges were required to wear masks and were mostly behind a plastic glass barrier . 
St Charles County Election Authority director Kurt Bahr said in a phone interview that the woman had previously worked several other elections , as had her sister at a different polling site . 
It was the sister who called Bahr ’s office Wednesday to let him know of the woman ’s death . 
But Bahr said the sister did not know of the Covid 19 diagnosis . 
" She was just as shocked , " Bahr said . 
" The family was unaware she had tested positive . 
As far as I understand , the only person that knew was the spouse of the judge . " 
Bahr said that as an election judge , the woman would have shown up around 5am to help prepare the polling place ; worked the entire time the polls were open from 6am to 7pm ; then spent about an hour wrapping up . 
She died in her sleep either late Tuesday or early Wednesday , Bahr said . 
Another judge who worked at the Blanchette Park site called Bahr ’s office to " try to figure out who it was " that had the illness , he said . 
" That judge more or less said nobody appeared sick . 
Nobody had symptoms . " 
County health officials are urging the precinct ’s other judges to be tested for the virus , St . Charles County spokeswoman Mary Enger said . 
Contact tracing efforts have begun . 
Bahr said the county is not recommending testing for those who voted at the precinct because their potential exposure was limited . 
