The ruling Kim dynasty of North Korea has for decades predicated their regime on the notion that only they can protect the Korean people from the outside world , be that capitalists , the United States or other hostile forces . 
Now , according to Pyongyang , a new threat has arrived -- the first publicly reported suspected case of Covid 19 within North Korea 's borders . 
Return of a defector : North Korean leader Kim Jong Un convened an emergency meeting Saturday after it was reported that a defector who fled the country three years ago had returned to the North Korean city of Kaesong , while possibly infected with coronavirus , according to state run newswire KCNA . 
Authorities in South Korea confirmed Monday that a defector had crossed the highly militarized border into North Korea . 
The South Korean Health Ministry said the man was not a known coronavirus patient or a close contact of one , but local police said the man was being investigated for a sex crime . 
KCNA said the defector had symptoms of Covid 19 , but did not confirm if he had been tested . 
Close contacts of the suspected case were being examined and quarantined , but KCNA warned of a " dangerous situation " developing in Kaesong that could lead to a " deadly and destructive disaster . " 
' Zero ' coronavirus cases : Few experts believe that North Korea , a country of nearly 25 million people which shares a border with China , could have escaped the effects of a pandemic that has infected more than 16 million people worldwide and killed nearly 650,000 . 
It 's possible North Korea has simply not identified existing cases due to a lack of testing , or has successfully managed to isolate small clusters of cases and is not reporting them . 
But if this defector does test positive and causes a major outbreak , Covid 19 could turn into one of the biggest threats Kim has faced in his nearly nine years of rule . 
What 's at stake : The virus has proven to be one of the most difficult and deadly challenges for leaders across the planet , but for Kim it is uniquely worrying . 
Experts say that North Korea 's dilapidated healthcare infrastructure is unlikely to be up to the task of treating a large number of patients sickened with a new virus that the global healthcare community does not fully understand . 
Read the full analysis : 
