Here 's today 's news : Infections drop in virus epicenter : Hubei , the Chinese province at the center of the novel coronavirus outbreak , announced just 349 new cases today , the lowest daily number of infections officially recorded by China in weeks . 
This appears to be partly due to a change in what is counted as a " confirmed case . " 
The confirmed cases in mainland China increased by 394 , according to the country 's National Health Commission , with only 45 of those new cases were outside of Hubei , according to the NHC 's official figures . 
The total number of confirmed cases in mainland China is now 74,576 , bringing the global total to 75,730 . 
" Confirmed case " definition changes : The fall comes as the Chinese government said it would no longer count " clinically confirmed " cases among the official total infections . 
It was a reversal from a decision made a week ago to include patients who had tested negative for the virus but showed symptoms . 
Death toll rises : The number of people killed by the virus continues to rise , with 114 more deaths announced in mainland China today . 
In total , the global death toll is now 2,126 . 
Diamond Princess deaths : Two passengers from the formerly quarantined cruise ship have died of the coronavirus , Japan 's health ministry announced today . 
Both passengers were in their 80s and had been in hospital in Japan , but no further information is known about them at this stage . 
A total of 626 cases of the coronavirus have been found onboard the ship . 
Passengers depart cruise ship : Hundreds of passengers who have tested negative for the virus are due to leave the Diamond Princess today after two weeks in quarantine on board . 
Cruise goers from Canada and Israel will be among those allowed to leave Thursday . 
South Korea infections jump : A patient has died in South Korea , and tested positive for coronavirus after their death , according to the country 's Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( KCDC ) . 
The cause of death is still being investigated , a KCDC official said . 
According to the KCDC , there have been 22 new confirmed cases , bringing South Korea 's total confirmed infections to 104 on Thursday . 
China stands by journalist expulsions : At his daily press conference today , Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang was asked multiple times about the decision by China to expel three Wall Street Journal reporters over a controversial opinion piece they were not involved with . 
But Geng said there was only one Wall Street Journal and it had to bear the responsibilities of its actions . 
" Those media who blatantly insult China , pitch racial discrimination and maliciously smear China must pay their price , " he said . 
