The British government has announced that it will follow a new immunisation strategy for the newly approved Oxford Astra Zeneca vaccine , which will prioritize giving the first of two vaccine doses to as many people as possible , before administering the second dose 12 weeks later . 
According to UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock , scientists and regulators have found that the first dose of the Oxford Astra Zeneca vaccine offers " very effective protection " from coronavirus , allowing for people to be protected for a longer period of time before receiving a second dose . 
In contrast , the prescribed two doses of the coronavirus vaccine developed by Pfizer and Bio NTech – which comes with greater logistical demands – must be administered three weeks apart . 
UK government scientific advisor Professor Calum Semple welcomed the new " sophisticated approach , " telling Sky News on Wednesday that a " one dose approach to start with will protect a great many people . " 
According to Semple , evidence from vaccine trials has shown that a single dose not only prevented people from getting severe disease , but also prompted a " very good immune response " in frail and elderly people . 
" That ’s quite a significant change , and it ’s quite important . 
That ’s what is game changing about this vaccine , " Semple said . 
Andrew Pollard , director of the Oxford Vaccine Group , told BBC Radio 4 on Wednesday that the second dose " will be really important " because it " will be critical for the durability of the immune response " to help prevent further waves of the disease . 
Pollard also confirmed that , at the moment , there is " no evidence " that the new vaccine wo not be effective against the new variant of coronavirus detected in in the UK . 
" We ca not be complacent with this or other variants , so now we have to monitor the virus that is around and make sure the vaccines are still effective against it , " Pollard said . 
" If in the future it is necessary to tweak the vaccines , that 's entirely possible to do , " he added . 
Millions of people are expected to be vaccinated by the end of the first quarter of 2021 , the CEO of Astra Zeneca said Wednesday . 
" We already have millions of doses we 'll be filling over the next period of time , " Pascal Soriot told BBC Radio 4 , adding that the British Swedish company has capacity to produce and deliver two million doses of the new vaccine per week , with the first doses expected to be distributed across the UK over the next few days . 
" We 're lining deliveries with the government so we can progressively ramp up the vaccination program….in January we 'll possibly already be injecting several million people and , in the second quarter , we 'll be in the tens of millions of people , " he added . 
