Melbourne bureau chief Melissa Davey here with you for the next eight hours or so bringing you the latest developments . 
You can contact me at melissa.davey@theguardian.com or on Twitter . 
Here in Australia the Victorian government will soon reveal more details about event cancellations following the cancellation of the Grand Prix on Friday . 
For the first time in almost a century , Sydney ’s Royal Easter Show has been cancelled . 
The Australian Health Protection Principal Committee has issued a statement saying " the time has come to put in place social distancing measures to mitigate spread , rather than a strategy based primarily on case finding " . 
These measures include : However schools , universities and shopping centres are not included in the ban . 
Australian Medical Association president Dr Tony Bartone said the evidence around schools " can be somewhat difficult to interpret clearly , and we need to be understanding and follow the evidence in that respect " . 
So we will work with , again with the Chief Medical Officer and the other health officers to ensure the timeliness of that . 
Clearly , where there ’s been an outbreak in ... the school it ’s appropriate that certain schools will be put into quarantine during that time . 
However , as we get deeper into the evolving pandemic response and effects , we will have to work with the best possible evidence . 
If we do nothing , if we turn a blind eye , our public hospital system will be overrun , and that is not in the interest of anyone in our community at all . 
On Saturday morning the president of the Australian Primary Principals Association , Malcolm Elliott , told the ABC that " some schools are a little more advanced than others " in their preparation . 
He said ; 
The show should go on , and if it is possible for schools to remain open then they should . 
In the interests of children and the interest of families , social organisation , but what happens now of course is that we are all on tenterhooks . 
We ’re all unsure about what the spread the virus will be , when it might strike particular schools or how widespread this might become and how quickly . 
So it is a very difficult thing to plan for , in any real meaningful way . 
