Extremely vulnerable people who have been " shielding " in Great Britain — staying at home at all times and avoiding any face to face contact — will be allowed outdoors from Monday , the UK government said in a statement ahead of the official announcement on Sunday . 
Communities Secretary Robert Jenrick will announce that 2.2 million clinically extremely vulnerable people will be able to go outside with members of their household , while continuing to follow social distancing guidelines , according to the government statement . 
The updated guidance says those who live alone can meet outside with one other person from another household . 
This is seen as a boon for the most clinically vulnerable , including many who have not had any face to face contact since they were first advised to shield 10 weeks ago . 
However , it comes at a time when members of the scientific advisory board to the UK government – SAGE – are warning that a premature easing of the coronavirus lockdown could lead to a " significant " number of new cases and deaths across the country . 
London Mayor Sadiq Khan also on Saturday urged citizens to " act with caution " as the government prepares to relax lockdown measures on Monday , expressing his concerns that the country is " rushing " to ease restrictions . 
However , the government advised those shielding : " The average chance of catching the virus is now down from 1/40 to 1/1000 , delivering greater reassurance that it is safe to cautiously reflect this in the guidance for those who have been advised to shield . " 
It added that people who are shielding should remain at a two meter distance from others when outside , should only leave the house once a day and should not go to work or the shops . 
They should also avoid crowded places where they ca not social distance . 
Johnson thanked those who have helped deliver medicine and shopping or checked in on people who are isolating . 
" We have been looking at how we can make life easier for our most vulnerable , so … I am happy to confirm that those who are shielding will be able to spend time outside with someone else , observing social distance guidelines , " Johnson said . 
" I will do what I can , in line with the scientific advice , to continue making life easier for you over the coming weeks and months . " 
" Thanks to the sacrifices made across the country , which have protected the NHS and saved lives , it ’s now time to begin lifting restrictions , step by step , and while we must all stay alert , we can now start to resume a sense of normality , " Health Secretary Matt Hancock said . 
During his speech at the government 's daily press conference on Sunday , Jenrick is expected to set out a plan to review shielding guidance at the same time as the government reviews its social distancing measures . 
The next review will take place later this month . 
