Since the outbreak of the Wuhan coronavirus became international news and a national panic across China , with millions placed under lockdown and travel restrictions and screenings put in place across the country , the city 's mayor , Zhou Xianwang , has been prominent in state media coverage of the crisis . 
While this could be seen as positive for Zhou , a sign of the central government 's faith in him and his leadership on the ground -- it 's likely the opposite . 
His appearances have all come since the central government and President Xi Jinping seized control of the crisis , and after intense criticism of him and other Hubei provincial officials ' handling of the initial outbreak online and in state media . 
In an interview last week , Zhou admitted that the city 's warnings were " not sufficient . " 
That followed revelations that Wuhan leaders had gone ahead with a world record pot luck dinner attempt involving 40,000 families , and had held a provincial Party congress after the first cases of the virus were detected . 
Zhou has defended his decision making somewhat , explaining that he did not know the situation was so serious , but recent findings have suggested that there was evidence of human to human transmission of the virus earlier than previously claimed , and Hubei has been criticized for not instituting screening until January 14 . 
" As for the late disclosure , I hope the public can understand that it 's an infectious disease , and relevant information should be released according to the law . 
As a local government , we can only disclose information after being authorized . " 
He admitted that should they fail to contain the virus , Wuhan officials " might leave a bad name in history , " and offered to resign . 
" If it 's conducive to the control of the virus and the protection of the safety of the people , Ma Guoqiang ( the Party chief of Wuhan ) and I can shoulder whatever responsibilities , " he told CCTV . 
" We would like to be removed from the office to appease public indignation . " 
It 's likely too early for Zhou and Ma 's scalps to be politically useful , however . 
Were they to be fired now , any further crises down the line would fall directly on the shoulders of the central government and President Xi himself . 
Faced with numerous other issues both at home and abroad , Xi can ill afford being blamed for the Wuhan outbreak , and may decide it 's more useful to keep two obvious fall guys front and center in the public 's imagination to soak up the opprobrium . 
With the virus expected to continue spreading for several months though , there will likely be more than enough to go around . 
