Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer , in a letter to his Democratic colleagues , ripped into the forthcoming scaled back Senate Republican stimulus proposal , underscoring the massive gulf that continues to exist between the parties in the negotiations for a new coronavirus relief package . 
" Republicans may call their proposal ‘ skinny , ’ but it would be more appropriate to call it " emaciated , ’ " Schumer wrote on Thursday to his members . 
" Their proposal appears to be completely inadequate and , by every measure , fails to meet the needs of the American people . " 
Here 's some background : The letter sets the stage for a partisan battle that will re commence in earnest when senators return from the summer recess period next week . 
Talks between Schumer , House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and top White House officials imploded nearly a month ago and have yet to make any headway in the weeks since . 
Democrats have pressed for a wide ranging , multi trillion proposal to provide funds for schools , rental assistance states and localities , health providers and small businesses . 
Treasury Sec . 
Steven Mnuchin and White House chief of staff Mark Meadows , the top GOP negotiators , have rejected the Democratic topline repeatedly and pressed to move a smaller scale package consisting primarily of areas where at least topline bipartisan agreement exists . 
Pelosi and Schumer have refused , castigating Republicans for underestimating the scale of the need created by the worst pandemic in a century . 
The dynamics have led to an increasingly pessimistic view on Capitol Hill that a new relief package – following on the $ 2.2 trillion CARES Act – is even possible at all . 
Meadows , in private conversations with Senate Republicans , has repeated said he does not think a deal is possible with Democrats given their current posture , multiple sources told CNN . 
" It ’s tough to go more than a month with literally zero progress , " one person involved in the negotiations told CNN . 
" Yet somehow that ’s exactly what has happened . " 
A split with serious consequences : The divide carries with it massive ramifications for the weeks ahead , as the country continues to grapple with the economic devastation created by the pandemic and the public policy response to it and lawmakers themselves face the threat of a government shutdown at the end of September if agreement is not reached on an all encompassing funding measure . 
And it all comes as control of the Senate – and the White House itself – hangs in the balance in an increasingly heated election season . 
Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell , who has remained outside of the direct negotiations between Democratic leaders and the White House , made clear that the divide between the two sides remains significant , saying on Wednesday the talks remain at a " stalemate . " 
" I can tell you I do think we do need to reach agreement and it ’s harder to do now because we ’re so much closer to the election , " Mc Connell said . 
" The cooperative spirit we had in March and April has dissipated as we move closer and closer to the election . " 
The Senate GOP leadership , for weeks , has been working behind the scenes toward building internal consensus on a scaled back , or " skinny " proposal , that would give the party an opportunity to show a unified front in a floor vote , aides said . 
That proposal , which would include funds for education , small business , a scaled back enhanced federal unemployment benefit and liability protections , has been circulated between members but not released publicly . 
The proposal has been discussed at length in regular conference calls between Senate Republicans and the top White House negotiators . 
Republican leadership is moving toward a procedural vote to take up the GOP proposal next week should he lock in more than 50 GOP supporters – something aides say Republicans are on track to achieving , particularly as front line Republican senators face difficult re election battles in November . 
" We ’re close , " a senior GOP aide told CNN . 
" I think everyone recognizes we have members in our conference that need to show we ’re working toward addressing the problems people are facing right now . " 
Schumer ’s letter , however , makes clear that effort would be blocked from advancing by Democrats , bringing the two sides back to a baseline that has consisted of hours of negotiations and talks , yet little if any signal that a topline difference of nearly a trillion dollars – and significant hurdles that exist in the policy details themselves – will be resolved in the near term . 
" It is clear Republicans are trying to ‘ check the box ’ and give the appearance of action rather than actually meet the truly profound needs of the American people , " Schumer wrote to his colleagues . 
Read the full story here . 
