Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer , in a letter to his Democratic colleagues , ripped into the forthcoming scaled back Senate Republican stimulus proposal , underscoring the massive gulf that continues to exist between the parties in the negotiations for a new coronavirus relief package . 
The letter sets the stage for a partisan battle that will re commence in earnest when senators return from the summer recess period next week . 
Talks between Schumer , House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and top White House officials imploded nearly a month ago and have yet to make any headway in the weeks since . 
Democrats have pressed for a wide ranging , multi trillion dollar proposal to provide funds for schools , rental assistance for states and localities , health providers and small businesses . 
Some context : Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and White House chief of staff Mark Meadows , the top GOP negotiators , have rejected the Democratic topline repeatedly and pressed to move a smaller scale package consisting primarily of areas where at least topline bipartisan agreement exists . 
Pelosi and Schumer have refused , castigating Republicans for underestimating the scale of the need created by the worst pandemic in a century . 
The dynamics have led to an increasingly pessimistic view on Capitol Hill that a new relief package — following on the $ 2.2 trillion CARES Act — is even possible at all . 
Meadows , in private conversations with Senate Republicans , has repeated said he does not think a deal is possible with Democrats given their current posture , multiple sources have told CNN . 
" It 's tough to go more than a month with literally zero progress , " one person involved in the negotiations told CNN . 
" Yet somehow that 's exactly what has happened . " 
The divide carries with it massive ramifications for the weeks ahead , as the country continues to grapple with the economic devastation created by the pandemic and the public policy response to it . 
Lawmakers themselves face the threat of a government shutdown at the end of September if an agreement is not reached on an all encompassing funding measure . 
Read more here . 
