Editor 's note:This story has been updated to reflect further reporting from Chinese state media and an official statement from the hospital . 
The Chinese doctor who sounded early warnings about the Wuhan coronavirus is in a critical condition , according to the hospital treating him and several state media outlets . 
Hours earlier the same state media organizations reported that he had died . 
Wuhan Central Hospital said on its official Weibo account that Li Wenliang , 34 , had become seriously ill . 
" In the fight against the pneumonia epidemic of the new coronavirus infection , our hospital 's ophthalmologist Li Wenliang was unfortunately infected . 
He is currently in critical condition and we are trying our best to resuscitate him , " the statement read . 
Multiple state media outlets including Global Times and People 's Daily , the ruling Communist Party 's official newspaper , had earlier said Li had died , but later deleted their reports . 
Following the initial reports that stated he had died , Chinese social media erupted with a mix of a profound grief and anger . 
Li raised the alarm about the novel coronavirus in December , posting in his medical school alumni group on the Chinese messaging app We Chat that seven patients from a local seafood market had been diagnosed with a SARS like illness and were quarantined in his hospital in Wuhan . 
Soon after he posted the message , Li was accused of rumor mongering by the Wuhan police . 
He was one of several medics targeted by police for trying to blow the whistle on the deadly virus in the early weeks of the outbreak , which has sickened more than 28,000 people and killed more than 560 . 
He later contracted the virus himself . 
The Global Times announced Li had died in a tweet at around 10:40 p.m . local time Thursday , linking to a report that cited friends and doctors at Wuhan Central Hospital . 
It deleted the post several hours later . 
Other Chinese media outlets also deleted their reports of his death , without explanation . 
The World Health Organization released a message of condolence following the initial reports that Li was dead but later updated their statement to say they did not have any information about the doctor 's status . 
The death toll and number of people infected by the Wuhan coronavirus continues to grow , with no signs of slowing despite severe quarantine and population control methods put in place in central China . 
The number of confirmed cases globally stood at 28,275 as of Thursday , with more than 28,000 of those in China . 
The number of cases in China grew by 3,694 , or 15 % , on the previous day . 
There have been 565 deaths so far , all but two of which were in China , with one in the Philippines and one in Hong Kong . 
