New Zealand 's extended a lockdown in its most populous city demonstrates how fast early successes in the pandemic can change . 
The country is battling a fresh community coronavirus outbreak after months without any locally transmitted cases . 
There 's still a major , unanswered question : How did this outbreak happen ? 
The remote island nation imposed strict border controls back in March , meaning that , for the most part , only New Zealanders are allowed into the country -- and those who do arrive from abroad need to spend 14 days in state quarantine facilities . 
According to the Ministry of Health , 68 % of New Zealand 's cases are imported or linked to imported cases . 
Quarantine facilities : One possible cause of this latest outbreak is that coronavirus somehow got out of New Zealand 's state quarantine facilities . 
That 's what Deputy Prime Minister Winston Peters told Australian national broadcaster ABC , saying : " I think there has been a breach in our quarantine system . " 
There have been breaches in New Zealand before -- in July , a man cut through a fence at a managed isolation facility to visit a liquor store , and another man who later tested positive for coronavirus broke out of a facility and visited a supermarket . 
It 's possibly a different strain of the virus : So far , authorities have not found a match between the genome involved in this latest outbreak and any cases in managed isolation facilities . 
New Zealand 's Director General of Health Dr . Ashley Bloomfield said the new cases most closely resemble the genome patterns from the United Kingdom and Australia . 
Bloomfield thinks the outbreak could have come in through the isolation facilities rather than being in present for months in New Zealand . 
Ardern said Friday that the strain in the new outbreak is not the same as one that previously existed in New Zealand . 
Warehouse samples tested : Authorities are also testing samples from surfaces at Americold , an American temperature controlled warehouse company where one of the original four to test positive worked . 
A number of cases have been linked to the company . 
But nothing is conclusive at this stage : Ardern said that , for now , authorities did not know how the outbreak happened . 
" We do not necessarily need to answer that question to deal with this cluster effectively , " she said . 
Read the full story : 
