Thousands of passengers on board the Diamond Princess cruise ship , docked at the Japanese port of Yokohama , are preparing to be evacuated . 
On Saturday , Japan said another 67 cases had been confirmed on board the ship , bringing the total to 286 . 
It is the largest outbreak of the virus outside of mainland China . 
Some passengers will be able to leave Sunday , with the United States providing a charter flight to transport its citizens on board the ship home . 
But those who board the plane will have to endure another 14 day quarantine , this time in San Antonio , Texas , when arriving back on US soil . 
They will kept separately from those under quarantine in the US after returning to the country from China . 
" The US government has chartered flights that will depart Yokohama to the United States on Sunday , February 16 , " the country 's embassy in Tokyo said in a letter to passengers Sunday . 
" These charter flights are the only opportunity for eligible passengers to fly to the United States until March 4 , 2020 , at the earliest . 
This date is 14 days after the remaining passengers are expected to depart the ship on February 19 . " 
The letter added that " passengers and crew members ( on board the Diamond Princess ) are at high risk of exposure " to the virus and the government was therefore " chartering these flights to minimize the risks to your health going forward . " 
" No symptomatic or infected passengers will be allowed to board , " it said . 
Swapping one quarantine for another : Some passengers have expressed frustration at the prospect of further quarantine . 
Writing on Twitter , Matthew Smith said he was " incredibly disappointed that the US Government has decided to throw a monkey wrench into the quarantine we have maintained here on board the Diamond Princess . 
Smith tweeted later that he " just found out from the Embassy that we could not take their evac flight even if we wanted to because we have too much luggage and carry ons that wo not fit in the plane , which have no overhead bins . " 
