Dr . Anthony Fauci , who is a key member of the Trump administration 's coronavirus task force , told reporters he did not mean to suggest anything during his interview with CNN 's Jake Tapper that President Trump was at fault for not intervening in the coronavirus pandemic sooner in the year . 
When asked by a reporter on receiving " pushback " from Trump about the recommendation to mitigate , Fauci responded he did not mean to use that word to describe it . 
" That was a wrong choice of words . 
When people discuss , they say this will maybe have a harmful effect on this or that , it was a poor choice of word , " he said . 
Fauci was referencing comments he made Sunday on CNN 's " State of the Union " where he suggested the United States should have responded earlier in the year to the novel coronavirus pandemic . 
" I mean , obviously , you could logically say that if you had a process that was ongoing and you started mitigation earlier , you could have saved lives , " Fauci said on " State of the Union " when asked if social distancing and stay at home measures could have prevented deaths had they been put in place in February , instead of mid March . 
" Obviously , no one is going to deny that . 
But what goes into those decisions is complicated , " added Fauci . 
" But you 're right , I mean , obviously , if we had right from the very beginning shut everything down , it may have been a little bit different . 
But there was a lot of pushback about shutting things down back then . " 
Trump 's initial handling of the crisis has come under increasing scrutiny as it 's been revealed that administration and health officials were sounding alarms for weeks before Trump took decisive actions such as calling for social distancing measures . 
Trump has disputed his administration was slow to respond and has called for the economy to be reopened quickly , potentially by the beginning of May , despite health officials ' warnings that doing so could risk a resurgence . 
Watch : 
