During Monday ’s coronavirus task force press briefing , the White House screened a campaign style montage of clips attempting to positively frame President Trump ’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic . 
The video featured commentators saying early in the virus ’ spread that the coronavirus was not as big as the flu and governors thanking the President and the task force . 
It also outlined a timeline of the President taking " decisive action " during the pandemic , " even as partisans sniped and criticized . " 
At one point in the video , an audio clip from New York Times reporter Maggie Haberman played . 
Haberman is heard saying the President ’s move to issue China travel restrictions was " probably effective . " 
Haberman was one of the authors of a lengthy Times report detailing " Trump ’s failure " on the coronavirus . 
As the clip of Haberman ’s voice played , the President could be seen looking at reporters , smiling and pointing to the screen . 
After the screening , Trump said , " It ’s very sad when people write false stories … mostly from the New York Times . " 
Haberman ’s quote was part of an appearance on the New York Times podcast The Daily . 
The quote from Haberman omits a final sentence , in which Haberman concludes that though the measure was probably effective , " The problem is , it was one of the last things that he did for several weeks . " 
" I mean , if you had libel laws , they would have been out of business , " he continued , later saying that the Times story was " a fake . " 
Asked how the video was produced , Trump said , " That was done by a group in the office . " 
" They were just pieced together over the last two hours , " he continued , saying that there were likely " over a hundred more clips " available . 
The President also confirmed that the campaign style video was put together by White House staff — federal government employees . 
" This was done by ( White House Social Media Director ) Dan ( Scavino ) and a group of people just put it together in a period of probably less than two hours , " he said . 
Asked why he felt the need to put the video together , Trump said , " Because we ’re getting fake news and I ’d like to have it corrected . " 
CNN 's Em Steck contributed to this report . 
