The Mayor of London Sadiq Khan called for masks to be worn on public transport and in shops , in a Friday interview with the BBC . 
Khan said the UK is an " outlier " for not recommending masks and called for non medical facial coverings such as bandanas , scarfs and reusable masks to be worn in public places . 
" I 'm lobbying our government 's experts and our government to change the advice , " Khan said . 
" If you really ca not stay at home , if you really have to use public transport and you ca not keep your social distance , then wear a non medical facial covering . " 
The UK government guidelines on social distancing do not mention masks or facial coverings . 
In a Downing Street press conference on April 3 , the Deputy Chief Medical Officer Jonathan Van Tam said there is " no evidence that general wearing of facemasks by the public who are well effects the spread of the disease in our society . " 
The World Health Organization is standing by its recommendation to only wear a mask if you are sick or caring for someone who is sick . 
According to the WHO website : " If you are healthy , you only need to wear a mask if you are taking care of a person with suspected 2019 n Co V infection . " 
It also says : " Masks are effective only when used in combination with frequent hand cleaning with alcohol based hand rub or soap and water . " 
But a growing number of countries have nonetheless updated their advice , urging their citizens to wear masks if they leave the house . 
In a series of Friday tweets , Khan added , " It breaks my heart that 20 London bus workers have lost their lives to # COVID19 . 
It could easily have been my dad & his friends . 
I‘m taking part in this minutes silence at 11am with @ Unitethe Union and urge all Londoners to join us . " 
" Today I announced additional action to keep drivers safe , with middle door only boarding on buses from Monday on top of enhanced cleaning & new protective screens on drivers ’ cabs . 
Our transport workers are heroes and we must do everything we can to protect them , " Khan said . 
