Responding to criticism of his administration 's response to the coronavirus , President Donald Trump touted his decision to limit travel from areas which had more coronavirus cases than the US at the time . 
Trump told reporters Monday , " I did a ban on China , you think that was easy ? 
Then I did a ban on Europe and many said it was an incredible thing to do . " 
Asked later about whether he ’d be willing to lift travel restrictions as part of opening up the country , Trump added , " Right now we have a very strong ban . 
We will keep it that way until they heal . " 
Facts First : It 's misleading to call the travel restrictions Trump announced against China and Europe a ban because they contained multiple exemptions . 
Only foreign nationals who had been in China , Europe 's Schengen area , the UK or Ireland within the past 14 days are outright banned from entering the US . 
As of February 2 , US citizens who had been in China 's Hubei province in the two weeks prior to their return to the United States are subject to a mandatory quarantine of up to 14 days upon their return to the US . 
American citizens returning from the rest of mainland China may also face up to 14 days of quarantine after undergoing health screenings at selected ports of entry . 
The broader European travel suspension Trump announced on March 11 applied to the 26 countries in the Schengen area , a European zone in which people can move freely across internal borders without being subjected to border checks . 
While Trump initially identified the United Kingdom as exempt , additional countries that are not in the Schengen area and thus also exempt from the restrictions include Ireland , Croatia , Cyprus , Bulgaria , Romania , Ukraine , Serbia , Armenia , Montenegro , Belarus and Russia . 
As of March 14 , the ban was expanded to include foreign nationals traveling from UK and Ireland . 
The restrictions also did not apply to US citizens returning from Europe as well as permanent US residents and certain family members of both citizens and permanent residents . 
You can read more about the European travel restrictions here . 
