Moderna 's coronavirus vaccine candidate is similar to the Pfizer Bio NTech vaccine that was authorized and shipped out to the first Americans earlier this week . 
But there are a few key differences . 
Most importantly , Moderna 's vaccine can be stored in normal freezers and does not require a super cold transportation network , making it more accessible for smaller facilities and local communities . 
Here 's a look at what we know about both of them : Efficacy Both Moderna 's and the Pfizer Bio NTech vaccine have shown similar efficacy levels of near 95 % . 
" They appear to be roughly equivalent , " said Dr . Paul Offit , a member of the FDA 's vaccine advisory committee , during an appearance on CNN 's " New Day " on Tuesday . 
Structure Both vaccines rely on m RNA , or messenger RNA , to work , although with slightly different structures and makeup . 
" Even though they 're both messenger RNA vaccines , they 're really different messenger RNA molecules , they have different so called lipid delivery systems , meaning the sort of fatty droplet in which the messenger RNA is located , " Offit said on Monday . 
" That 's why they have different storage and handling characteristics . " 
Cold storage Most importantly , Moderna 's vaccine does not need to be kept at super cold temperatures , like Pfizer 's . 
The Pfizer vaccine needs to be stored at about minus 75 degrees Celsius , about 50 degrees colder than any vaccine currently used in the US . 
The vaccine can be put in the refrigerator for only up to five days before it expires . 
To accommodate that , the CDC created a complex set of handling and storage requirements known as the " cold chain " that included expensive ultra cold freezers and lots of dry ice . 
In contrast , Moderna 's vaccine can be kept at about minus 20 degrees Celsius , or about the temperature of a home freezer , according to Moncef Slaoui , the head of the US effort to develop a vaccine for Covid 19 . 
Moderna 's vaccine can also be kept in a refrigerator for 30 days before it expires . 
" So that 's more manageable and much more commonly available , " Slaoui said Tuesday . 
These differences suggest that Pfizer 's vaccine may be used more for major institutions with established infrastructure like hospitals , while Moderna 's may be more useful to smaller facilities like a local chain or pharmacist . 
Dosage and timing Moderna 's vaccine is administered as two 100 microgram doses given 28 days apart . 
Pfizer 's vaccine is administered as two 30 microgram doses given 21 days apart . 
Age If authorized , the Moderna vaccine would be used in people 18 and older , while the Pfizer vaccine was authorized for people 16 and older . 
You can read more about both both vaccines here . 
