Pubs and restaurants in one of London ’s main hotspots were bustling on Saturday but businesses admitted they do not know how to enforce the latest restrictions . 
The English capital was placed into tier 2 lockdown measures at midnight on Friday , meaning it is now illegal for Londoners to socialise indoors with people outside their household . 
Soho , famous for its thriving nightlife , was pedestrianised when the national lockdown started to lift at the start of summer so its eateries and bars could set tables up in the street . 
Some said they had seen a slight drop in customer numbers compared to last weekend , but said it could be down to the falling temperatures rather than the latest measures . 
One member of staff , who asked not to be named , at the Greyhounds Pub on Greek Street told the Press Association he now had to ask everyone sitting inside if they came from the same household . 
" I ask them but it ’s just not practical , I have no way of checking unless I ask everyone to give me their address , " he said . 
A waiter at L ’Antica Pizzeria Da Michele on Old Compton Street said they could no longer take bookings as a result of the changes , and relied on walk ins . 
Despite that , he said the restaurant had been at its " busiest for months " on Friday . 
Door staff at Comptons , a nearby pub , said they were also having to rely on people ’s honesty when it came to making sure customers sitting inside were all from the same household . 
One member of staff said they had been very lucky so far in terms of customer numbers , but were worried about what would happen when the weather turned colder . 
Earlier in the day , anti lockdown protesters marched down Oxford Street before congregating in nearby Leicester Square to demonstrate against the restrictions . 
Led by Piers Corbyn , brother of former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn , protesters yelled at passers by to remove their masks , telling them any Covid 19 vaccine would be " poison " . 
Many of those on the march headed to Soho ’s pubs at the end of the demo . 
