Further evidence of the growing tension within the UK ’s Conservative party has emerged after it was revealed 20 MPs from Conservative heartland seats in southern England have written to the Labour leader , Kier Starmer , and Greater Manchester mayor , Andy Burnham , asking them to work with the government ’s regional policy . 
Starmer has called on the government to impose a two week ‘ circuit breaker ’ lockdown . 
The letter , signed by Norfolk MP Jerome Mayhew , says a national lockdown is the wrong approach . 
It says that businesses would close and jobs lost in Manchester irrespective of a national or regional lockdown . 
It goes on to claim that a national lockdown would cause tens of thousands of job losses in southern Tory constituencies despite the fact most are areas of low infection prevalence . 
Steve Double , Damian Green and Dan Poulter and Anne Marie Morris are other Tories to sign . 
The letter sparked sharp responses from fellow Tories representing constituencies in the Greater Manchester area . 
William Wragg , MP for Hazel Grove , replied : " May I politely ask that colleagues concern themselves with their own constituencies . 
I would not wish tighter restrictions on their constituents . 
We ’re willing to work constructively to improve the situation in Greater Manchester & amp ; would ask for the short time and space to do so . " 
Christian Wakeford , the Bury South MP , said bluntly : " Interventions from fellow members who do not understand the situation are neither wanted nor helpful . " 
Bolton MP Chris Green , who resigned as junior government minister last week , said : " I have never thought that the affairs of Norfolk should be determined by what may be of benefit to parts of Lancashire , Cheshire and Yorkshire . 
Science matters but this No.10 approved communication does not . " 
20 MPs have today written to Keir Starmer and Andy Burnham . 
Let 's work together to avoid another damaging lockdown , tackling the virus on a regional basis , responding to the infection rates if we are save lives , look after the NHS , keep children in school , & amp ; shelter the economy . 
