If you 're just joining us , here 's what 's been happening over the last few hours . 
Highest level of alert : The World Health Organization increased the global risk from the outbreak from high to very high . 
" This thing can go in any direction . 
We ’re not undermining the risk , it ’s there , " Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , director general of the World Health Organization , said during a press briefing in Geneva on Friday . 
Global spread : The total number of confirmed cases now stands at more than 84,000 , with more than 5,000 cases outside of mainland China . 
Though the number of new cases is beginning to ease inside of China , new clusters are fast expanding elsewhere , with rising infection rates in South Korea , Iran and Italy . 
In total , the virus has now spread to more than 56 countries and territories outside of mainland China . 
Italy 's hospitals overflowing : Health officials from Italy ’s Lombardy region have warned also warned of a " hospital crisis " if the coronavirus continues to spread . 
According to Professor Massimo Galli , the head of the department of infectious diseases at Sacco Hospital in Milan , his hospital has already reached the limit for the hospital beds in intensive care wards . 
US reports 64th case : The US has reported its 64th case in California -- the individual was a Travis Air Force Base evacuee and passenger of the Diamond Princess cruise ship . 
The announcement comes amid growing concerns in the US . 
According to public health authorities , the country 's 63rd case , which was reported earlier Friday , is the second US case of unknown origin , indicating that there 's evidence of the virus transmitting within the community . 
Shutting down : From conferences to concerts , an increasing number of events around the world are being canceled . 
CBS also temporarily suspended the production of its show " The Amazing Race " due to " increased concerns and uncertainty regarding the coronavirus around the world , " a CBS spokesperson said in a statement to CNN . 
