A group of British nationals and some of their foreign relatives currently in quarantine for coronavirus say they are holding up well . 
The 94 people are being kept in isolation at Arrowe Park hospital in Wirral after being evacuated from the centre of the outbreak in Wuhan , China , on two repatriation flights . 
They will be held for two weeks to monitor for any symptoms of the virus . 
Kharn Lambert , a PE teacher , has lived in Wuhan for the last five years and was being visited by his 81 year old grandmother , Veronica Theobald , when the outbreak occurred . 
He told Sky News ’s Kay Burley on Monday : " It ’s quite weird being home but not being home , and also being locked in – almost like being back in Wuhan really – where we ca not get outside certain perimeters and go further , so it ’s a bit of a weird feeling , really . " 
Lambert said that , out of the first group of 83 arrivals , no one was showing any coronavirus symptoms or complaining about feeling unwell . 
" Everybody is in good spirits , " he said . 
" As you can imagine , it ’s not the best of circumstances but we ’re all trying to keep our spirits high . 
" We ’re playing jokes on each other , we ’re having a laugh when we have the chance to see each other . " 
People in Wirral have donated supplies , including toys and video game consoles , to keep the quarantined cohort entertained . 
The second group of evacuees , made up of seven British nationals and four of their family members , arrived at the Merseyside hospital on Sunday evening . 
Lambert said he has not seen the new arrivals and believed they were being housed away from the other people in quarantine . 
He praised the staff taking care of the evacuees in the hospital accommodation block . 
" They ’re all being told to wear protection , ie masks and gloves , when they ’re in the communal areas . 
" They ’ve been absolutely fantastic since the moment we arrived and we ca not thank them enough for everything they ’re doing for us at the moment . " 
