We ’re learning more about this coronavirus each day , but a month since it emerged , there remain some important holes in our understanding — what the former US secretary of defence , Donald Rumsfeld , might have called known unknowns . 
I ’ve just spoken to Ian Mackay , a virologist at the University of Queensland about what some of those might be . 
The disease appears to spreading more efficiently than its cousins Sars or Mers . 
That ’s probably down to the fact that the world is much more dense and interconnected than in 2003 , when Sars emerged , and because this coronavirus is more easily transmitted . 
" It ’s more like the flu , which can whip around the world in no time , " says Mackay . 
It appears that China will not be able to contain its spread within the country , but that does not necessarily mean the death toll will spike , he says . 
" One big hole in our understanding is whether the disease is more dangerous than Sars , " he says . 
" That part is hard to answer because we ’re missing a big important number , which is how many people are confirmed cases but have not gone to the hospital and are being quarantined at home , and how many have recovered . " 
That matters , because it will tell us how many people have gotten only mildly or moderately sick , and therefore how deadly the disease is . 
If we take the cases that have been reported outside China , the death rate is less than 1 % . 
But understanding the full spectrum of infections inside China will give us a much better idea . 
" Usually with respiratory viruses we see the young end of town as the virus spreaders , " says Mackay . 
Think of the way that kids go to school , spread a cold , then take it home to their parents , who in turn might carry the virus to work . 
" So I ’m wondering why we ’re not seeing kids among the cases , " Mackay says . 
He speculates it might be because we ’re focusing on the most severely infected people , who are presenting to hospital , and missing the fact that many people , including children , might have the coronavirus but are only presenting with relatively minor symptoms and recovering at home . 
Viruses are " relentless replicating adaptive machines " that are constantly evolving , and this coronavirus will be no exception , Mackay says . 
Virologists need to see a larger selection of genome sequences of the virus than are currently available " to see more of what ’s happening with the virus as it ’s passing through thousands , possibly tens of thousands of hosts " . 
Chinese officials have made comments suggesting that the virus is now transmitting more easily . 
Scientists will want to see evidence of those new cases " just to make sure that there are not consistent changes building up in the virus over time that might have an effect " on how it should be fought , he says . 
