Europe has been reporting more than 26,000 daily new coronavirus cases on average since governments started relaxing measures implemented to stop the spread of the disease , according to the World Health Organization ( WHO ) . 
The increase can be explained in part by the fact that " authorities have been easing some of the restrictions and people have been dropping their guard , " WHO Europe chief Hans Kluge said during a news conference on Thursday . 
Kluge said that with 3.9 million coronavirus cases , the region accounts for 17 % of the global total . 
While Europe made great strides in suppressing the virus after it was hit " early and hard , " Kluge affirmed that the " risk of resurgence has never been far away . " 
He said that " new cases have been steadily increasing every week in the region " since restrictions began easing . 
Europe recorded 40,000 more cases in the first week of August compared to the first week of June , when cases were at their lowest , he added . 
Kluge said that the key challenge was " that localized outbreaks and clusters are now occurring with greater frequency , often in closed settings . " 
The WHO Europe chief said that these outbreaks should not interfere with the plans for children to return safely to school , and announced a meeting for all 53 countries in the region on ensuring safe , high quality education . 
Suggested measures include opening schools in areas with low virus levels , adjusting schedules and keeping students numbers low in areas with widespread cases . 
A new season : Kluge said it was " critical that countries monitor flu activity and restore and reinforce routine surveillance to include both viruses , and that they promote flu vaccination for at risk groups . " 
He emphasized the greater stores of knowledge countries have for dealing with the virus in the fall . 
Kluge said he was " very concerned that more and more young people are counted among reported cases , " telling Europe 's youth that they " have their part to play " in suppressing the virus and advising against large gatherings . 
