1 . Will the outbreak end during the summer ? 
Dr . Leana Wen , the former Baltimore Health Commissioner , echoed what many experts have said at the town hall : we just do not know yet . 
2 . If you had the coronavirus and recovered , can you still can still transmit the disease ? 
Just because someone who had the coronavirus is feeling better does not mean they ca not spread the disease , said Dr . Anthony Fauci , the US 's top infectious disease doctor and the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases . 
3 . If you get the coronavirus once , can you contract it again ? 
The answer to that is not yet clear , according to Dr . Maria Van Kerkhove , an infectious diseases epidemiologist with the World Health Organization . 
4 . Should you travel ? 
Fauci said he " certainly would not get on a plane for a pleasure trip . 
It would have to be something that was really urgent . " 
And here 's the CDC 's latest coronavirus advice for travelers 5 . 
What does the Trump administration 's latest travel ban mean for me ? 
The restrictions will ban travel to the US from 26 European countries -- a group in Europe called the Schengen Area -- Austria , Belgium , Czech Republic , Denmark , Estonia , Finland , France , Germany , Greece , Hungary , Iceland , Italy , Latvia , Liechtenstein , Lithuania , Luxembourg , Malta , the Netherlands , Norway , Poland , Portugal , Slovakia , Slovenia , Spain , Sweden and Switzerland . 
The ban will be in effect for anyone who is transiting through the listed countries , not just arriving from them , according to CNN correspondent Richard Quest -- meaning , for instance , someone in Paris could not travel to London and then go to the US . 
The ban does not apply to US citizens in Europe . 
They are allowed to return , but the procedure is not exactly clear . 
They will need to go to designated airports to fly back . 
It 's unclear whether they will have to immediately self isolate once they arrive , or whether that may only apply to symptomatic people . 
WATCH : 
