Despite a continued rise in confirmed cases of coronavirus in California , schools , gyms , movie theaters , and bars can reopen with modifications beginning today across much of the state . 
Film and television productions are also able to send people back to work after months of closures to prevent the spread of the virus effectively shuttered Hollywood . 
The reopening comes after California reported nearly its highest single day total of confirmed new cases of the coronavirus on Thursday , with more than 3,000 new infections . 
Los Angeles County , the epicenter of the pandemic in the state , also reported its second highest number of new cases on Thursday with 1,857 infections and 46 deaths . 
But while the state continues to see a rise in new cases , the California Department of Public Health gave the green light for an expanded reopening , including hotels , day camps , museums , zoos , and professional sports without live audiences , with approval from county health officers . 
Indoor movie theaters can also reopen today . 
Not everywhere is reopening : While most counties across the state will further resume their economies on Friday , some regions , such as the Bay Area , are taking a more conservative approach , holding off on reopening some businesses and services until later this summer . 
And a number of other industries and activities , including nail salons , theme parks , public events and gatherings , in person college courses , and convention centers remain closed statewide . 
While California 's schools are allowed to reopen today , most are aiming to do so with the new school year in the fall . 
Schools and childcare facilities will be given thermometers , face shields , masks , face coverings , and hand sanitizer for safety . 
According to the guidance for schools , the California Department of Public Health recommends implementing distance inside and outside the classroom , limit sharing , intensifying cleaning , disinfection , and ventilation as well as training teachers and staff to educate families and students on proper hygiene , the use of face coverings , and physical distancing . 
Here 's the restrictions for industries that are reopening : Fitness facilities will have to implement measures to ensure physical distancing and evaluate occupancy rules based on the size of the facility , according to the guidance . 
Bars , restaurants , and wineries must prioritize outdoor seating and curbside pickup . 
State public health officials also recommend air circulation by opening windows or doors , disposable or low touch menus , and asking guests to wear a face covering when not eating or drinking . 
Indoor movie theaters must limit the number of attendees to 25 % of capacity or a maximum of 100 attendees , whichever is lower . 
