Turkey has rolled out new inspection and enforcement rules after coronavirus cases jumped above 1,000 for the first time in three weeks , in what the government called a grave rise during peak holiday season . 
Top doctors have warned about insufficient testing and urged a tougher message from Ankara , which lifted a partial lockdown in June and has since lobbied hard for countries to allow tourists to visit to help get the economy back on its feet . 
President Tayyip Erdoğan ’s government had called 1,000 a critical threshold to reconsider rules . 
On Tuesday it adopted daily quarantine inspections , new tracing oversight in all cities and measures for weddings , funerals and other large gatherings , although it avoided broad curbs on economic activity . 
The interior ministry said the nationwide rules - including some fines for violations - were needed to sustain the fight against the pandemic that has killed 5,765 and infected 234,934 in Turkey . 
The central city of Kirikkale will pilot a new call centre that checks complaints about citizens ignoring face masks and other rules , and for a " safe area " rewards system for business that abide by them , the ministry said . 
The 1,083 new Covid 19 cases reflect a " severe " rise after a four day holiday weekend , health minister Fahrettin Koca wrote on Twitter , urging Turks to avoid unnecessary contact so that their vacations do not have grave consequences . 
New cases had hovered just below 1,000 since 13 July . 
The government has not publicly disclosed the number of critical care or intubated patients since 29 July , raising questions among some experts even while more than 40,000 tests have been logged daily . 
Dr Bülent Yilmaz , general secretary of the Turkish Medical Association , said people at risk were missing out on tests . 
" Most of the tests are done to those who need routine tests . 
It seems that those who are in real trouble and risk groups are not sufficiently tested , " Yilmaz told Reuters . 
Turks ignoring social distancing on vacation was troubling , he added . 
The images from the beaches are grim , but you cannot really blame people . 
The government needs to show the situation is serious so that people can take it seriously , too . 
Germany , Turkey ’s second biggest source of tourists , has lifted a travel warning on four Turkish seaside provinces with low infection rates to help revive tourism . 
