More than 8.5 million cases of novel coronavirus have been confirmed worldwide , including at least 454,000 deaths , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
If you 're just joining us , here are the latest developments . 
US warned over reopening : More than 90 % of Americans are still susceptible to Covid 19 , said Dr . Ali Khan , dean of the College of Public Health at the University of Nebraska Medical Center . 
Her warning comes as ten states saw their highest daily number of cases this week and nearly two dozen states saw spikes in cases compared to last week . 
Coronavirus apps : The UK government is abandoning its attempt to develop a coronavirus tracing app from scratch and will instead build one based on a system created by Google and Apple after repeated delays . 
Germany 's government said its coronavirus smartphone app has been downloaded 9.6 million times since it was launched on Tuesday . 
Beijing outbreak " under control " : Chief epidemiologist at China 's CDC Wu Zunyou declared the virus flare up in the Chinese capital is already " under control . " 
But the current outbreak in Beijing is the worst resurgence of the coronavirus yet , and authorities are still trying to track down its source . 
The cluster has infected more than 180 people as of Friday . 
Cases surge in Indian capital : New Delhi is looking into increasing hospital beds and is ramping up testing as coronavirus cases in the city near 50,000 . 
It comes as India reported 13,586 coronavirus cases nationwide in the past 24 hours , the biggest single day jump in infections to date . 
Yemen faces " nightmare " : Millions of Yemenis could be infected with coronavirus and up to 85,000 people could die as the country 's health system has effectively collapsed , the International Rescue Committee ( IRC ) said in a report today . 
Brazil nears 1 million cases : It comes after another daily spike on Thursday . 
The health ministry reported another 22,765 new cases , bringing its total number of cases to 978,142 . 
