Crowds protested outside the Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu ’s home on Saturday demanding he quit over his handling of Covid 19 , Reuters reports . 
Many were angered by what they said were government attempts to use lockdown measures to stifle demonstrations . 
Long lines of cars drove along the main highway to Jerusalem in a protest convoy and groups gathered on bridges and junctions in other cities , also demonstrating over corruption charges against Netanyahu – charges he denies . 
The protests came a day after the government tightened Covid 19 lockdown restrictions , though parliament failed to pass one measure to restrict citizens ’ protests to within 1 km ( 0.6 miles ) of their homes . 
That measure would have effectively halted the weekly demonstrations outside Netanyahu ’s residence which have built up over the summer . 
" I ’m here to stop the destruction of Israel , to stop democracy dying , " said Amit Tirosh , 42 , a doctor from central Israel . 
Luckily parliament managed to stop the demonstrations ’ halt at the last minute . 
Everyone should be here . 
We are at the edge of an abyss . 
Netanyahu has rejected allegations that the tougher lockdown rules were in part intended to quash the protests , which he has often called " anarchist " and " ludicrous " . 
He said on Thursday : We need the lockdown in order to save lives . 
There was no official figure for the number of protesters on Saturday but Israel ’s N12 News said thousands took part . 
Police said most of them complied with social distancing and face mask rules . 
Netanyahu ’s government decided this week to tighten a three week lockdown imposed on 18 September , hoping to keep Israelis at home , shutting down many businesses and limiting group prayers during the ongoing Jewish high holiday season . 
On Saturday , Netanyahu urged Israelis in a video message on Twitter to pray in the open air rather than inside synagogues on Yom Kippur , the upcoming Jewish day of atonement and the holiest day in the Jewish calendar which begins on Sunday . 
Only 27 % of Israelis trust Netanyahu ’s handling of the coronavirus crisis , according to a survey published by the non partisan Israel Democracy Institute on Wednesday . 
Israel imposed its first lockdown in March and then relaxed it in May as new cases tapered off . 
But infections have since surged , reaching daily highs of more than 7,000 among the population of nine million . 
The country is in recession with unemployment above 11 % . 
