The US House of Representatives could pass a provision Monday night that would increase the amount of money individuals and families receive in stimulus checks . 
A Republican leadership aide tells CNN that while the Republican side is not whipping the bill , " there ’s a good chance it can pass . " 
It ’s far from certain , but aides are warning it ’s possible . 
The bill , which would require a 2/3 majority to pass because it is going to occur under suspension , would increase the amount of the stimulus checks from $ 600 to $ 2,000 per individual . 
Eligibility for the checks is determined by a person ’s most recent tax returns . 
Anyone who made under $ 75,000 as an individual , or $ 150,000 as a couple , would receive the full amount . 
The amount individuals receive decreases by $ 5 for every $ 100 a person makes over $ 75,000 . 
In short , that means that individuals who make over $ 99,000 would not be eligible , nor would couples making more than $ 198,000 . 
If the bill actually passes the House with a strong Republican vote , it will put Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell in a tough position of having to decide whether to bring the provision to the floor in the Senate as a standalone bill . 
While the President has been urging Republicans to up the payments , many Republicans in Mc Connell ’s ranks have made it clear they do not think an increase is warranted , given how much it would increase the price tag of the stimulus bill . 
A vote on the checks would likely divide the GOP conference and force some members to endure President Trump ’s ire in his final days in office . 
Reminder : The Covid 19 relief legislation was passed by Congress last Monday and was flown to Mar a Lago on Thursday to await Trump 's signature . 
But after sitting on the sidelines during the negotiations , Trump emerged with an eleventh hour complaint that a separate provision in the deal , which the President 's own White House helped broker , would only provide up to $ 600 in direct payments . 
Trump wanted to send out $ 2,000 checks . 
Trump signaled in a statement Sunday night that he signed the coronavirus relief bill only after securing a commitment for the Senate to consider legislation to increase stimulus checks from $ 600 to $ 2,000 . 
Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell , however , did not reference that commitment in his own statement Sunday night praising the President for signing the relief bill . 
