When Nigerian student Mercy Eyo landed a foreign postgraduate scholarship in July 2019 , she had just lost her father . 
A year earlier , her mother had passed away . 
She was elated about the prospect of starting a master 's degree in global health care management at Coventry University , in the United Kingdom , with a scholarship from a Nigerian government agency . 
" I was super excited ... 
I felt it was a consolation that would change my life forever , " Eyo said . 
However , that dream has turned into a nightmare for Eyo who said she is now living a hand to mouth existence and awaiting scholarship funds that have failed to arrive 12 months later . 
Eyo , from Bonny Island , southeastern Nigeria , is one of more than 200 students who landed a scholarship through Nigeria 's Niger Delta Development Commission ( NDDC ) in 2019 . 
CNN has seen a scholarship letter dated July 29 , email exchanges between her and the awarding body and scanned copies of the letters she sent to the commission in December 2019 requesting funds to process her travel arrangements . 
She was told to make her way abroad and the money would later follow , but despite selling her laptops , phones and other valuable properties , Eyo was not able to raise her travel funds and visa processing fees and lost her place at the Coventry University . 
She remains in Nigeria with no signs of the funds promised to her . 
Other scholarship students from Nigeria that CNN spoke to were able to make their way abroad . 
But they are also still waiting for the promised funds . 
Students recently held protests at the Nigerian High Commission Office in London . 
The protesters caught the attention of President Muhammadu Buhari who , on August 4 , ordered the NDDC to immediately pay the outstanding sums owed to the students . 
The NDDC promised to pay the fees by the end of that week , but so far , none of the students CNN spoke to has received their outstanding payment . 
CNN has contacted NDDC to find out why the payments to the students has still not been made two weeks after the President 's order . 
The NDDC has not yet responded to the request for comment . 
Read the full story here . 
