CVS is preparing to administer Covid 19 vaccinations to approximately 900,000 skilled nursing home residents in the US , according to Chris Cox , senior vice president of CVS Health . 
In October , the Trump administration announced agreements with CVS and Walgreens to vaccinate residents of long term care facilities nationwide . 
Advisers to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have called an emergency meeting Tuesday to vote , in part , on whether to recommend that residents in those facilities be among the first people in the US to get a coronavirus vaccine . 
Long term care facilities include assisted living facilities and skilled nursing facilities , which are often referred to as nursing homes . 
" We think there 's a good chance , based on what we 're hearing , that it 's going to be the skilled nursing facilities that they recommend be up front , " Cox said . 
The residents live in more than 8,000 skilled nursing facilities in all 50 states . 
CVS plans to send teams to each of the facilities three times in the coming months . 
A team will consist of two vaccinators and one support staffer , on average . 
CVS plans to store the vaccine at approximately 1,000 " hubs " across the country . 
" A hub is basically a normal pharmacy , but it 's been selected based off of its geographic location to store the vaccine . 
So we would train the pharmacy team in that particular location to be experts on the handling and the specific nuances of each of these particular vaccines , " Cox said . 
" The dedicated clinic teams would then show up on the day of the clinic to collect the vaccines and transport it to the nursing home . " 
After an emergency use authorization is issued , a period of coordination is anticipated . 
" Before day one we would , in essence , know when we 're going to start the clinics . 
We would coordinate with each of those nursing homes , the date on which their clinic would occur . 
We would assign staff to them , and then through a series of communications with each of those nursing homes , we would get a roster from them of the patients — and potentially , if they chose to , the staff members — who would be vaccinated during that particular clinic . 
That would allow us to upload all of those patients and staff members into our pharmacy system , so that on the day of the clinic itself it would really become about the administration of the vaccine , " Cox said . 
This kind of upfront coordination is expected to take 10 days to two weeks and then the vaccine will be provided to CVS by the federal government , Cox said . 
