The novel coronavirus has infected more than 3.4 million people and killed at least 243,000 worldwide . 
If you 're just joining us now , here are the latest developments . 
US cases : In the worst hit country , there have been at least 1,132,315 cases of coronavirus and at least 66,364 deaths , according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University . 
Congress turns down testing : President Donald Trump took to Twitter after US Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi rejected his offer of providing 1,000 rapid coronavirus tests to Congress . 
The duo said the tests should be saved for frontline health care workers . 
France 's deaths decline : The daily number of deaths from coronavirus in France continues to decline . 
At least 24,760 people have died there after contracting Covid 19 , an increase of 166 since Friday , the Health Ministry announced Saturday . 
Meanwhile , the French government will extend its state of emergency for another two months . 
China sends help : China has sent 149 medical experts to 16 countries for Covid 19 prevention and control work , its National Health Commission said . 
Malaysia migrants : Police are using movement control laws to round up undocumented immigrants to prevent the spread of coronavirus , according to state run media agency Bernama . 
Hundreds of undocumented immigrants have been detained across the capital , Kuala Lumpur . 
Turkey exports : Turkey has lifted trade restrictions imposed on the export of some medical equipment due to the pandemic . 
This equipment includes ventilators , intubation tubes and intensive care unit monitors . 
More cases at US meat plants : About half of the people tested at the Tyson pork processing plant in Logansport , Indiana , have Covid 19 . 
Of the roughly 2,200 employees at the plant , about 1,900 individuals were tested . 
Trump had signed an executive order aimed at keeping meat processing facilities open but there are concerns over worker safety . 
Baby names : UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson has named his newborn son in honor of doctors who treated him for coronavirus . 
The baby 's name is Wilfred Lawrie Nicholas Johnson -- Nicholas is in honor of two doctors who treated Johnson . 
