Healthcare workers in Wuhan are warning that hospitals are running low on supplies as they struggle to cope with the outbreak of the Wuhan coronavirus . 
Four medical staff -- including doctors -- spoke to CNN of the situation and vented their frustrations amid exhaustion . 
They have asked to remain anonymous , fearing they could face repercussions for speaking to journalists without permission from their superiors . 
Through telephone conversations with CNN and posts on Chinese social media , they described scenes of hospitals low on resources . 
In private groups online , those identified as hospital staff are working with members of the public to import protective equipment as they treat an increasing number of patients infected with the deadly new coronavirus . 
" In terms of resources , the whole of Wuhan is lacking , " one Wuhan based healthcare worker told CNN by phone . 
This person said they were looking for more protective clothing , including goggles and masks . 
" It ’s really like we ’re ‘ going into battle stripped to the waist , ’ " another healthcare worker added , using a Chinese idiom that equates to " going into battle without armor . " 
A different hospital staff member even claimed healthcare workers have had to resort to wearing diapers to work so as to avoid having to remove their hazmat suits , which they say are in short supply . 
A doctor on her Weibo microblog account described similar accounts at another Wuhan hospital . 
" My family members are definitely worried about me , but I still have to work , " a separate doctor told CNN . 
But she said that she is hopeful that they will ultimately get the gear they need . 
" Our bosses , our hospital suppliers will definitely find a way to get these stocks to us , " she added . 
It ’s not clear if these accounts are merely anecdotal or whether there are widespread shortages across Wuhan . 
Chinese state media has also shared posts from multiple Wuhan hospitals in which they are asking for public donations of medical supplies . 
They report that one hospital staff member said the current supplies " are only able to sustain three or four days . " 
