Portugal seemed set up to be devastated by Covid 19 , as a country with among the fewest intensive care beds per capita in the European Union . 
But with 38,089 confirmed cases and only 1,524 deaths , according to the Johns Hopkins University tally , so far the opposite is true . 
One of the reasons behind Portugal ’s relative success could be the use of steroids to treat patients in Intensive Care Units ( ICUs ) . 
A new study by Oxford University has found this method to reduce inflammation in the lungs could reduce the risk of death for hospitalized patients . 
The World Health Organization has also called it a potential breakthrough , but doctors at Lisbon Central University Hospital Center have already been treating patients with corticosteroids ( known as corticotherapy ) for months , ICU head Dr . Nuno Germano said . 
" What we ’ve seen with corticotherapy is that we are able to reduce the inflammation and greatly improve the respiratory function of the patients , " he said . 
" I think that early ventilation , along with corticotherapy to treat inflammation in these patients has allowed us to have a ventilation duration that does not surpass 10-11 days . " 
Germano said around 60 % of ventilated patients at his hospital have been treated with steroids , explaining that it is one of several tools that have helped staff keep the death toll for ICU patients at around 16 % . 
" We [ also ] have a team that does outreach , that goes out of the ICU and observes patients and what we do is ... early intubation and ventilation to the patients , " he added . 
In addition to the techniques used in ICUs , Portugal has benefitted from mass testing and the government ’s swift response to the coronavirus threat , according to the head of infectious diseases at the same hospital , Dr . Fernando Maltez . 
Maltez and Germano both said the easing of anti coronavirus measures has caused the number of confirmed cases to increase in the past few weeks , especially in and around Lisbon . 
Yet they added that so far they have not seen a surge that would overwhelm health services . 
WATCH : 
