The United Kingdom has begun administering the first doses of the Pfizer/Bio NTech vaccine outside clinical trials , launching a sprawling public health campaign to vaccinate tens of millions of people in just a matter of months . 
It marks a significant turning point in the fight against Covid 19 , months into a pandemic that has left more than 1.5 million dead . 
Margaret " Maggie " Keenan , who turns 91 next week , became the first person in the world to receive an authorized , fully vetted coronavirus vaccine . 
The second patient to receive a shot was an 81 year old man named William Shakespeare ( yes , you read that right ) . 
Keenan and Shakespeare were among a handful of people across Britain — those aged over 80 , nursing home staff and health care workers — who were administered doses of the Pfizer/Bio NTech vaccine on Tuesday morning , a week after the UK leapfrogged the rest of Europe and the United States to become the first Western nation to approve it . 
The process , which is complicated by the need to store the Pfizer/Bio NTech vaccine in ultracold conditions , will be closely watched from around the globe . 
The speed with which UK regulators approved the vaccine raised questions in some quarters . 
But Saffron Cordery , deputy chief executive of NHS Providers , said the process had been " incredibly robust . " 
Other nations are not far behind the UK . 
The US regulator , the Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) , has scheduled a meeting of its vaccine advisory committee on Thursday to discuss Pfizer/Bio NTech 's emergency authorization application . 
It will meet again on December 17 to consider the application for Moderna 's vaccine candidate . 
Meanwhile , vaccination centers across Moscow started to distribute Russia 's Sputnik vaccine on Saturday , initially to groups such as teachers , health professionals , and municipal services workers , after Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered large scale vaccination to begin across the country . 
