Reuters : So far , markets have been comparatively sanguine in response to Trump ’s diagnosis : hopes of a breakthrough in talks among US lawmakers on another stimulus package took the edge off a stock market selloff on Friday , with the S&amp ; P 500 losing less than 1 % and so called safe haven assets seeing limited demand . 
News of Trump ’s hospitalisation at a military medical center outside Washington , where he remained on Saturday , came after trading ended on Friday . 
Many investors are concerned , however , that a serious decline in Trump ’s health less than a month before Americans go to the polls could roil a US stock market that recently notched its worst monthly performance since its selloff in March while causing turbulence in other assets . 
If the president ’s health is in jeopardy , there ’s " too much uncertainty in the situation for the markets just to shrug it off , " said Willie Delwiche , investment strategist at Baird . 
The various outcomes investors currently envision run the gamut from a quick recovery that bolsters Trump ’s image as a fighter to a drawn out illness or death stoking uncertainty and drying up risk appetite across markets . 
Should uncertainty persist , technology and momentum stocks that have led this year ’s rally may be particularly vulnerable to a selloff , some investors said . 
The tech heavy Nasdaq fell more than 2 % on Friday , double the S&amp ; P 500 ’s decline . 
" If people ... get nervous right now , probably it manifests itself in crowded trades like tech and mega cap being unwound a bit , " Delwiche said . 
A record 80 % of fund managers surveyed last month by Bof A Global Research said that buying technology stocks was the market ’s " most crowded " trade . 
The concentration of investors in big tech stocks has also raised concerns over their outsized sway on moves in the broader market . 
The largest five U.S . companies - Google parent Alphabet , Amazon , Apple , Facebook , and Microsoft - now account for almost 25 % of the S&amp ; P 500 ’s market capitalization , according to research firm Oxford Economics . 
