The novel coronavirus continues to spread worldwide , with new clusters sparking emergency measures and travel restrictions in Europe and the Middle East . 
Here 's what you need to know : South Korea cases pass 1,000 : There are 1,146 coronavirus cases and 12 deaths in South Korea , with more than half of the infections linked to a branch of the Shincheonji religious group in the country 's south . 
The group has agreed to hand over the list of its entire congregation in South Korea to health authorities . 
US soldier infected : A 23 year old US soldier stationed in South Korea has become the first US service member to test positive for the coronavirus , according to US Forces Korea . 
Italy outbreak grows : Italy is the center of the largest outbreak outside Asia , with 322 cases and 10 deaths . 
Officials admitted that a hospital in a northern town had mishandled the region 's first coronavirus case and had contributed to the virus ' spread . 
Several cities and towns are under lockdown , effectively putting 100,000 people under quarantine . 
Europe on edge : Several of Italy 's neighbors , including Austria , Switzerland and Croatia have reported their first cases , while Spain and France recorded several more . 
Iran faces travel restrictions : There are now 96 cases and 15 deaths in Iran , with the deputy health minister among the infected . 
Nearby countries , including Iraq , Afghanistan and Turkey have halted travel to Iran and implemented restrictions on travelers from Iran . 
Other Middle Eastern countries have also reported their first cases of coronavirus in recent days , including Kuwait , Bahrain and Lebanon . 
Markets plunge again : Early declines in Asia Pacific stocks on Wednesday followed a terrible day in the United States , where the Dow finished 879 points , or about 3.2 % lower -- its second straight day of massive declines . 
The index has lost more than 2,000 points in total over the past four days . 
Closer to a pandemic : Dr . Nancy Messonnier , director of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ’s National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases , said coronavirus has met some of the criteria for a pandemic -- but not all of them . 
