Reuters reports that Jordan has announced jail sentences of up to a year for anyone organising weddings , parties , funerals or social gatherings where more than 20 people attend , in the latest measures aimed at heading off a resurgence in coronavirus cases . 
Government spokesman Amjad Adailah said the latest orders , which stem from an emergency law enacted by the monarch last April that gives the government sweeping powers to curb civic rights , would be strictly enforced . 
" This order is to prevent the violations that have led to the spread of the virus and increase in infections , " Adailah said , adding hefty fines would be imposed on attendees . 
The health minister Saad Jaber blamed the surge in cases in the past few weeks on " irresponsible " behaviour at weddings and social gatherings where many mingle without masks and social distancing . 
The kingdom reported 279 new cases of Covid 19 on Thursday , its highest daily toll since the start of the pandemic in March , bringing the country ’s total to 4,131 with 26 deaths . 
The authorities also suspended schools for two weeks as of Thursday for over 2 million pupils after dozens of cases were discovered among teachers and students since schools reopened at the start of the month after a five month absence . 
The cabinet last Monday also closed restaurants and places of worship from mosques to churches for a similar two week period as of Thursday . 
The government also will operate with fewer civil servants . 
The government has refrained , however , from a nationwide lockdown that was enforced during the spring for fear of its consequences on an already battered economy . 
The transport minister Khaled Seif said on Thursday the authorities waived a two week quarantine for travellers coming to Jordan as of next Wednesday and replaced it a week long home quarantine . 
The government hopes the latest measures will start to bring back a trickle of visitors to its private medical industry from war torn spots in the region and help the recovery of its collapsed tourism sector , a main source of foreign currency . 
