A spring break trip to a Mexican beach resort last March led to 64 cases of coronavirus , but proper contact tracing , quarantine and isolation got the outbreak under control , a team at The University of Texas at Austin reported Wednesday . 
No one got seriously ill and no one died , but the incident illustrates how young people – especially college students – can quickly spread the virus among themselves and carry it into the community , the research team said . 
Sixty vacationers caught the virus . 
They in turn infected one household contacts and three people in the community , the UT team reported in the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ’s weekly bulletin . 
The students traveled to Cabo San Lucas , Mexico from March 14-19 . 
A week later , back in Austin , three showed up at the health center with coronavirus symptoms and tested positive . 
" Contact tracing interviews revealed that Cabo San Lucas travelers used a variety of commercial , charter , and private flights to return to the United States , " wrote the researchers , part of a joint effort between the university and Austin Public Health . 
" Additional travelers were identified through contact tracing interviews and review of flight manifests gathered with assistance from Austin Public Health , " they added . 
Then the contact tracing team swung into action . 
" UTHA trained medical students , public health students , and clinical and research staff members to trace contacts . 
UTHA contact tracers communicated with travelers and contacts by telephone , first texting an initial message about the potential exposure and then attempting to call each traveler and contact up to three times , " they wrote . 
" During the telephone call , contact tracers advised asymptomatic travelers and contacts to self quarantine and self monitor for symptoms for 14 days from the last potential exposure date . 
Symptomatic travelers and contacts were offered a SARS Co V 2 test and asked to self isolate until either a negative test result was obtained or , following CDC recommendations at the time , until 7 days after symptom onset , including 3 days with no fever and no worsening of symptoms . " 
It was complicated , because many of the people involved had shared rooms , traveled together , and then returned home to shared apartments . 
And about a fifth of those who ended up testing positive had no symptoms . 
The symptoms people did have were various . 
" Similar proportions of fever , cough , sore throat , and headache occurred among persons with positive test results and those with negative results , " the team wrote . 
It ’s possible some of the students had other respiratory infections , including flu . 
The researchers also suspect some claimed they had symptoms when they did not , so they could get tested . 
Universities , colleges and other schools need to take into account this pattern of shared living and rapid virus spread as they consider reopening , the researchers said . 
