Germany will roll out the Bio NTech/Pfizer vaccine against the coronavirus on 27 December with priority given to seniors in care homes , the Berlin city government said . 
The announcement came as Germany registered its highest daily death toll from Covid 19 and as it entered a strict lockdown in an attempt to bring down soaring infections . 
Along with other members of the EU , Germany has decided to wait for the European Medicines Agency ( EMA ) to approve the vaccine . 
It is expected to make an announcement on 21 December . 
A senior EU official said on Wednesday the bloc could give its final approval for the Pfizer/Bio NTech vaccine on 23 December . 
" The federal states will start vaccination against the novel coronavirus SARS Co V 2 on 27 December , " the local government that runs the German capital said in a statement after a conference between health minister Jens Spahn and health officials from Germany ’s 16 states . 
Spahn has expressed frustration at the lack of approval of a vaccine partly developed in Germany even as countries such as Britain and the US are rolling it out . 
The number of registered Covid 19 deaths jumped by a record 952 on Wednesday . 
The previous record was 598 last Friday . 
However , Wednesday ’s figures are not entirely comparable to previous days because they were inflated by a technical problem in one state , said the Robert Koch Institute for infectious diseases , which collates the data . 
Fears the pandemic is spiralling out of control prompted chancellor Angela Merkel and state governors to announce on Sunday a tough lockdown from 16 December until at least 10 January . 
Shops and schools will stay shut in a pre Christmas tightening of restrictions following a partial lockdown in November , which closed bars and restaurants but failed to contain a second wave of the pandemic . 
Germany was more successful than many countries in keeping the coronavirus under control in the first wave in the spring but the situation looks different now . 
The Robert Koch Institute put the number of confirmed cases at 1,379,238 , an increase of 27,728 . 
The total death toll in Germany is 23,427 . 
The seven day incidence of cases ticked up to 180 per 100,000 people from 174 on Tuesday . 
• This entry was amended on 18 December 2020 to clarify that Germany has decided to wait for the EMA to approve the vaccine , rather than being obliged to do so as an earlier version indicated . 
