Millions of people across India have been placed under lockdown until the end of the month as efforts to halt the spread of the novel coronavirus in the country intensify . 
Residents living in 75 districts across the country , including in major cities such as the capital New Delhi , Mumbai , Bangalore , Chennai , Hyderabad , and Kolkata have been placed under travel , work and movement restrictions until March 31 . 
India -- the world 's second most populous country -- has 415 cases of the coronavirus , including seven deaths , according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare . 
A sudden rise in cases has led to growing concerns over the country 's capacity to test for the virus and that a major outbreak on the scale seen in Europe -- the pandemic 's new epicenter -- will spread in the country . 
Who is affected by the measures : In New Delhi , public transportation , including the metro and rickshaws , has been suspended , all shops , factories , places of worship and offices have been shut , interstate travel has stopped , borders with neighboring states have closed and people are required to stay in their homes until March 31 . 
Exempt from the order are essential services such as grocery stores , hospitals , pharmacies , petrol stations , telecoms and postal services , and restaurants that deliver food . 
Testing capacity : Dr . Balram Bhargava , director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research , said that India has conducted 5,000 tests in the past week and a total of 15,000 so far . 
There are 111 labs operational with a per week testing capacity of 60,000 to 70,000 and around 60 more private labs are in the process of being approved to further increase testing capacity , according to Bhargava . 
Other steps : Uttarakhand , Rajasthan and Telangana have all initiated state wide lockdowns versus targeted restrictions of cities and districts . 
Several districts , including the financial capital of Mumbai , have banned gatherings of four or more people , and officials can take legal action against those who violate the rule . 
Read more here . 
