Here ’s Dom Phillips in Rio de Janeiro with more on Brazil ’s deepening crisis . 
Brazil ’s health ministry slashed the number of new Covid 19 deaths it reported on Sunday by 857 because far right president Jair Bolsonaro wanted less than a thousand deaths a day , a leading newspaper has reported . 
Bolsonaro has sought to control information Brazilians receive about the pandemic which has killed 36,455 people and infected 691,758 here , according to John Hopkins University figures . 
On Sunday the health ministry said 1,382 deaths had been recorded in the previous 24 hours , but later corrected it down to 525 . 
On Monday the Estado de S.Paulo newspaper reported that the correction was ordered because Bolsonaro wanted the number of deaths at less than a thousand a day . 
He has vociferously attacked social isolation and notoriously quipped " so what ? " to the rising death toll in April . 
To accommodate him , the health ministry separated out all the deaths reported over 24 hours – as it had been doing for months – and began including only deaths that had actually occurred during the last day . 
The correction came two days after the Ministry stopped releasing accumulated cases and deaths in a daily bulletin and wiped a government site clean of data – a move also reportedly ordered by Bolsonaro that provoked widespread condemnation . 
Leading Brazilian media organisations are teaming up to provide a daily count at 8pm each day , and the National Council of State Health Secretaries is also updating numbers each day . 
On Monday WHO executive director Michael Ryan said Brazilians needed to understand where the virus was , how to manage risk and that the WHO hoped communication would be " consistent and transparent " , Reuters said . 
The health ministry said this week it will launch an interactive site with Covid 19 data . 
On Monday it had " corrected duplications and updated data released about cases and obits from Covid 19 last Sunday . " 
It cited discrepancies that were corrected in two states but did not explain what happened or why . 
