The safety of any potential coronavirus vaccine comes " first and foremost , " the World Health Organization 's ( WHO 's ) chief scientist said Wednesday . 
The comments came after drug giant Astra Zeneca announced it has paused global trials of its vaccine because of an unexplained illness in one of the volunteers -- a standard precaution in trials , to ensure experimental vaccines do not cause serious reactions . 
" The process still has to follow the rule of the game , which is go through the process of clinical trials , " she added . 
She said development timelines were being shortened -- but not at the expense of safety or efficacy . 
" We are putting a lot of investment into manufacturing well ahead of the results of the trials . 
Normally a company would wait , see the results of the trial , then start scaling up , but here you are investing in advance what 's called ' at risk investment , ' so there places around the world that can start manufacturing before the results are available , " Swaminathan said . 
Charlie Weller , head of the vaccines program at the Wellcome health research charity , said it was right for the trial to be paused while an investigation takes place . 
" Vaccines are among the most rigorously tested and monitored products we have in society , and the Covid 19 vaccines should be no different , " Weller added . 
He said he welcomed reports that nine vaccine makers had pledged to uphold high ethical standards and not seek premature government approval . 
" Today 's news reminds us of the importance of funding and developing a wide range of vaccine candidates , alongside treatments and testing , " said Weller . 
" We do not yet know which will be successful , but ensuring all advances are fairly available globally is our only exit from this pandemic . " 
Dr . Ohid Yaqub , Senior Lecturer at the University of Sussex 's Science Policy Research Unit , told the Science Media Centre ( SMC ) that such a pause in testing was " not unusual " in Phase 3 . 
He said that publicizing such a routine event helped to build trust , but warned that too much running commentary could bias the results . 
Stephen Evans , Professor of Pharmacoepidemiology at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine , told the SMC that even if tests revealed that the vaccine had caused the recipient 's illness , " there may be other factors involved and it would not necessarily mean the vaccine could not be used at all . " 
Dr . James Gill , honorary clinical lecturer at Warwick Medical School and a locum GP , said : " Personally , I would be suspicious of a vaccine for a novel virus which was developed without any hiccups or pauses ... 
From the start , scientists have said that this Covid vaccine development will take considerable time to get right and safe . " 
