Donald Trump has said he will leave the White House if the electoral college votes for president elect Joe Biden , the closest he has come to conceding the 3 November election , even as he repeated his unfounded claims of massive voter fraud . 
Speaking to reporters on the Thanksgiving holiday , Republican Trump said if Democrat Biden - who is due to be sworn in on 20 January - is certified the election winner by the electoral college , he will depart the White House . 
But Trump said it would be hard for him to concede under the current circumstances and declined to say whether he would attend Biden ’s inauguration . 
" This election was a fraud , " Trump insisted in a sometimes rambling discourse at the White House , while continuing to offer no concrete evidence of widespread voting irregularities . 
Biden won the election with 306 electoral college votes - many more than the 270 required - to Trump ’s 232 , and the electors are scheduled to meet on 14 December to formalise the outcome . 
Biden also leads Trump by more than 6 million in the popular vote tally . 
Trump has so far refused to fully acknowledge his defeat , though last week - with mounting pressure from his own Republican ranks - he agreed to let Biden ’s transition process officially proceed . 
Asked if he would leave the White House if the electoral college votes for Biden , Trump said : " Certainly I will . 
Certainly I will . 
And you know that . " 
" But I think that there will be a lot of things happening between now and the 20 January . 
A lot of things , " he said . 
" Massive fraud has been found . 
We ’re like a third world country . " 
Desperate efforts by Trump and his aides to overturn results in key states , either by lawsuits or by pressuring state legislators , have failed , and he is running out of options . 
In the US , a candidate becomes president by securing the most ‘ electoral ’ votes rather than by winning a majority of the national popular vote . 
Electors , allotted to the 50 states and the District of Columbia largely based on their population , are party loyalists who pledge to support the candidate who won the popular vote in their state . 
