A fishing boat carrying nearly 370 migrants landed overnight on the Italian island of Lampedusa , the country ’s news agencies said on Sunday , fuelling anger from local officials over a recent rise in illegal arrivals , AFP reports . 
Italy has been struggling in recent months with daily arrivals of hundreds of migrants leaving from North Africa to its southern shores , a task complicated by security measures imposed by the ongoing coronavirus crisis . 
Local Lampedusa mayor Toto Martello called for a general strike on the island from Monday to protest the national government ’s " frightening silence " on the issue . 
" Lampedusa can no longer cope with this situation . 
Either the government takes immediate decisions or the whole island will go on strike , " Martello told ANSA news agency . 
" We ca not manage the emergency and the situation is now really unsustainable . " 
The boat carrying 367 people , which was in danger of sinking due to high winds , was escorted by the Italian coast guard and police to the island ’s port , ANSA news agency said . 
Those onboard included 13 women and 33 minors . 
They were met at the port by a demonstration organised by the far right , anti immigrant League party . 
The migrants , whose nationalities were not known , underwent temperature checks before they were taken to an emergency reception centre on the island which now houses some 1,160 people , ten times its planned maximum capacity , Martello told ANSA . 
About 30 other small boats , mostly from the Tunisian coast , had already reached the island since Friday carrying a total of around 500 migrants , the Italian press reported . 
Nello Musumeci , the right leaning leader of sister island Sicily , wrote on Facebook on Sunday that he would ask the government for a meeting on the " humanitarian and health crisis " . 
" Lampedusa ca not do it anymore . 
Sicily cannot continue to pay for the indifference of Brussels and the silence of Rome , " he wrote . 
Musumeci issued a decree last week ordering the closure of migrant centres in Sicily to curb the spread of coronavirus , a move that was rejected by the Italian courts . 
