There was always a chance that Covid 19 would flare up again , even after it was suppressed , and countries need to focus on their response to these flare ups , according to World Health Organization officials . 
" There was always a likelihood that diseases , that we have said – it would spike and there would be flare ups of the virus – because until the virus has gone , there ’s always a chance of flare ups , " said Dr . Mike Ryan , director of WHO ’s Health Emergencies Programme , during a news briefing in Geneva on Monday . 
Countries really need to focus their response on the inevitable flareups , Ryan said – how fast and how effectively they respond to them , and if they are able to shut them down as quickly as possible , and move on to the next flare up . 
Once the virus has been bought down to a low level and these flare ups do occur , how quickly a country or area is able to respond to them , and how localized they can be in their response , really comes down to how well they have invested in the ability to do things such as surveillance , quarantine and contact tracing , according to Ryan . 
While viruses often show seasonality when there are not control measures in place , Covid 19 has not shown this . 
But , what it has " clearly demonstrated is you take the pressure off the virus , the virus bounces back , " Ryan said . 
" That ’s the reality . 
That ’s the fact . 
You can call that a second wave , you can call that a second spike , you can call that a flare up . 
You can call it anything you like . 
Take the pressure off this virus , the virus will bounce back , " he said . 
Maria Van Kerkhove , WHO ’s technical lead for Covid 19 , agreed with Ryan . 
Everyone on the planet should know what their role is in the fight against Covid 19 and manage their own risk , she said . 
There is no indication of seasonality . 
The virus has not gone away and that the majority of the population remains susceptible to infection , she said . 
" So , we have to do everything that we can to prevent infections and save lives , " Van Kerkhove said . 
" Do it all . 
Physical distance , wear a mask where appropriate , make sure you practice respiratory etiquette , avoid crowded settings , follow national guidance , be informed . 
All of this needs to be done every day . " 
