As the global Covid 19 case count approaches 20 million and deaths approach 750,000 , Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , director general of the World Health Organization , said the virus must be suppressed to safely reopen societies , " I know many of you are grieving , and that this is a difficult moment for the world , " Tedros said during a news briefing in Geneva on Monday . 
" But I want to be clear : There are green shoots of hope and no matter where a country , a region , a city or a town it – it is never too late to turn the outbreak around . " 
He said there are " two essential elements to effectively addressing the pandemic effectively . " 
Tedros highlighted countries such as New Zealand and Rwanda as examples of places that are doing well in the fight against Covid 19 . 
New Zealand ’s Prime Minister celebrated 100 days with no community transmission but stressed the need to stay cautious , Tedros said . 
Rwanda is seeing progress due to a similar combination , he said . 
Testing and treatment for Covid 19 is free , people who test positive are isolated , and all their potential contacts are visited and tested by health workers . 
" Getting the basics right provides a clear picture of where the virus is , and the necessary targeted actions to suppress transmission and save lives , " Tedros said . 
He added that " even in countries where transmission is intense , it can be brought under control by applying an all of government , all of society response . " 
Using tools such as rapid case identification , contact tracing , adequate care for patients , physical distancing , mask wearing and hand hygiene , chains of transmission have been broken . 
Countries that have successfully done this have been able to reopen parts of societies , including schools , with a risk based approach ; however they must stay vigilant for potential clusters of Covid 19 . 
Everyone wants to see schools reopen , Tedros said , but the safety of all those involved must also be ensured . 
" My message is crystal clear : Suppress , suppress , suppress the virus , " Tedros said . 
" If we suppress the virus effectively , we can safely open up societies . " 
