Undeterred by a barrage of criticism , the US state of Georgia is moving ahead with its plan to help restart its economy , reopening some nonessential businesses today . 
Gov . 
Brian Kemp is one of America 's first governors to ease restrictions , allowing gyms , barber shops , hair salons , tattoo parlors , massage therapists and bowling alleys to resume work , so long as they comply with social distancing guidelines . 
But maintaining a safe distance in many of those businesses is next to impossible , leaving owners feeling conflicted , Faith Karimi writes . 
" Get your hair done for what ? 
There 's a pandemic , people are dying , " one hair stylist said . 
The House of Representatives approved a $ 480 billion package yesterday to help refresh a dwindling small businesses loan program , as another 4.4 million people filed for unemployment . 
The coronavirus has put a staggering 26 million Americans out of work since mid March . 
But the aid did not include money for state governments to help keep workers on their payrolls — assistance that a bipartisan group of governors and mayors have been begging for from Washington . 
Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell drew the ire of governors for suggesting that " blue states " hit hard by the outbreak seek bankruptcy protections rather than be given a federal bailout . 
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said the remark from the Kentucky Republican was reckless and that the pandemic was no time for divisive politics : " It ’s not red and blue . 
It ’s red , white and blue . " 
Here 's what else you need to know today . 
Can sunlight and bleach cure the coronavirus ? 
The short answer is : No . 
US health experts are rushing to warn against President Donald Trump ’s suggestion that zapping patients with UV light or even injecting disinfectant into the lungs could help treat the virus . 
The claims , touted by Trump during yesterday ’s press briefing , have been slammed for endangering public health . 
Too much UV light damage can lead to skin cancer . 
And chlorine bleach is toxic : it can and does kill people who drink it . 
A silent , deadly spread : US health officials said months ago that the risk to the public was low . 
But new research and two February deaths confirmed as virus related , prove that Covid 19 was already spreading much earlier than previously thought . 
Drug hopes fade : Global stocks slumped today after a study into a potential coronavirus treatment was halted following inconclusive results . 
Drug maker Gilead said it had terminated a trial of Remdesivir early , and thus had no conclusive findings about its effectiveness . 
24 hours in a UK intensive care unit : CNN spent a day inside a hospital in the Midlands , the worst hit area of Britain outside of London . 
Nurses and doctors there offered these two warnings : 1 . 
They fear a second wave as soon as lockdowns lift . 
2 . Just because the country ’s capital city is seeing the virus ebb , does not mean it is not ravaging other regions . 
India 's Muslims attacked , blamed for spread : Hafiz Mohammed Naseerudin , a 44 year old Imam , says that after a police officer assaulted him for being a Muslim and blamed him for spreading the coronavirus , he was left lying on the road for almost an hour . 
He ’s not alone . 
As fears of a widespread outbreak mount in India , some of the country 's Muslims , who make up roughly 200 million of the country 's 1.3 billion population , have been targeted in Islamophobic attacks on the streets and online , and accused of spreading the virus . 
Travel bans amid Ramadan : Indonesia has temporarily banned domestic road , air and sea travel , as the world 's most populous Muslim nation marks the start of the holy month of Ramadan . 
Tens of millions of people normally make their way home to celebrate the end of Ramadan each year , an annual tradition called mudik . 
But , as the country grapples with rapidly rising numbers of infections , there are concerns mass migration could spark further outbreaks . 
A version of this story first appeared in CNN 's Coronavirus : Fact Vs . 
Fiction newsletter . 
You can sign up here . 
