Ontario could reach 1,000 new Covid 19 cases per day in the first half of October , new projections released showed , putting Canada ’s most populous province on a trajectory similar to the hard hit Australian state of Victoria . 
The projections do not consider the impact of modest new restrictions introduced earlier in September and come on a day when the province reported 625 new cases . 
A graph of projected cases in the modelling showed Ontario beginning to track the case rise in Victoria , which declared a state of disaster and imposed a curfew and strict movement restrictions on 1 August . 
" We are starting to see that sharp upward curve , " said Adalsteinn Brown , dean of the University of Toronto ’s school of public health , noting that cases are doubling every 10 to 12 days . 
Brown warned of " a remarkably high surge , unless public health measures and adherence to public health measures start to damp down that transmission " . 
Ontario chief medical officer David Williams said officials are looking at the risk associated with some banquet halls , group fitness classes , and workplaces that are " less than stringent " about employees who are sick or required to quarantine coming to work . 
The Ontario government announced a C$2.8bn ( $ 2.1bn ) spending plan to slow the spread of the virus in the coming months . 
It was not immediately clear whether the funds were from provincial coffers or provided by the federal government . 
Ontario brought in some new measures on 19 and 25 September , reducing the size of social gatherings in some hotspots , limiting the hours that bars and restaurants can operate and serve alcohol , and closing strip clubs . 
Officials said it is still too early to see the full impact of those changes . 
Ontario reopened casinos at sharply reduced capacity on Monday , the same day it reported an all time high of 700 new cases . 
Premier Doug Ford slammed individuals protesting mask requirements and other public health measures , calling them " yahoos " . 
" Guys , give your heads a shake , " Ford said . 
" We ’re all in this together . " 
