Key senators and White House negotiators said Wednesday they had reached a deal on a key piece of their stimulus package , setting the stage for the release of their long awaited full proposal . 
Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell told members he plans to unveil the package Thursday not as a single bill , but in pieces based on jurisdiction , GOP Sen . 
Roy Blunt of Missouri told reporters . 
The agreement marks progress in what has been an unwieldy several days on Capitol Hill for Republicans , with splits on policy becoming public between Republican senators and the White House — and among Senate Republicans themselves . 
What is expected in the plan : Senate Appropriations Chair Richard Shelby , an Alabama Republican , announced the " fundamental agreement " on the funding piece of the GOP plan , which would include $ 105 billion for schools and additional billions in funds for testing . 
Blunt , the chair of the health panel on the Appropriations Committee , said the appropriations agreement would include $ 105 billion for schools that would be divided as $ 70 billion for K 12 , $ 30 billion for colleges and universities and $ 5 billion for governors to use at their discretion . 
Of the $ 70 billion , $ 35 billion would be for all schools on a per capita basis and the remaining amount would be directed toward schools reopening and the costs associated with that . 
Specific language will be included in the proposal to provide guidelines for how schools would qualify for the second pot of money , but the proposal would leave much of the decision making up to governors . 
Additionally , the agreement includes funds for testing — a major sticking point between White House negotiators and their Senate GOP counterparts . 
The topline number would be $ 25 billion , which would comprise $ 16 billion in new funds and a commitment from the administration to designate for use the $ 9 billion in leftover funds . 
Meadows said no final decisions had been made about what the GOP proposal would include on the extension of the federal enhancement of unemployment insurance or what has been decided on a payroll tax cut , which President Trump has made a priority in spite of resistance from a large number of Republican senators . 
Read more about the plan here . 
