Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin called the discussions between White House negotiators and Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell " very productive , " but acknowledged that while there is a " fundamental agreement , " both sides still need to review and finalize text – which can be a time consuming process . 
" Whether this gets introduced today or not , we ’re still looking at the timing , " Mnuchin said . 
Senate Republicans had planned to introduce the multi part proposal on Thursday . 
White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows acknowledged the time crunch negotiators currently face , given the upcoming weekend and the expected funeral of Rep . 
John Lewis next week . 
The real deadline negotiators are focused on , Mnuchin reiterated , is the expiration of the federal enhancement of unemployment insurance at the end of next week . 
On unemployment insurance , Mnuchin reiterated that the GOP plan would seek to replace the $ 600 enhancement with the equivalent of " approximately 70 % " of wage replacement . 
Other key details of the stimulus proposal : Negotiators are still working through the mechanical details of how to implement that given the issues many states have with their individual systems . 
The benefit extension would be through the end of the year . 
Mnuchin said on direct payments , " We ’re talking about the same provision as last time . 
Our proposal is the exact same provision as last time . " 
Senate Republicans have proposed targeting the stimulus checks toward lower income individuals . 
In the $ 2.2 trillion CARES Act , checks of up to $ 1,200 for individuals and $ 2,400 for families based on adjusted gross income , and $ 500 for each child . 
On the Paycheck Protection Program , Mnuchin said the proposal would allow for businesses to apply for a second forgivable loan through the program if they have under 300 employees and can demonstrate revenue losses of 50 percent or more . 
As to the long path ahead for negotiations with Democrats , Mnuchin pointed to past deadline deals made with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi . 
" We can work quickly when there ’s areas of agreement , " Mnuchin said . 
Meadows also cited the looming unemployment cliff : " Those deadlines on Capitol Hill always work magic in the 11th hour . " 
