Republican senators say the White House conceded to Senate Republican demands during the negotiations — namely on money for contact tracing and testing , making funds available for schools that stay closed and dropping President Trump 's demand for a payroll tax cut . 
On school funding : After Trump and Education Secretary Betsy De Vos warned that aid to schools would be withheld without them fully reopening , the Senate GOP pushed back and charted a different course . 
According to Sen . 
Roy Blunt , a key negotiator in the GOP White House deal , he said about half of the $ 70 billion for K 12 schools in the plan would be given regardless if they are open or not . 
The other half would " go out on the basis that you have more expenses if you ’re back to school than you do if you ’re not . " 
Blunt added : " But none of the college money and only half of the elementary and secondary money would be conditional on returning to school . 
And that does not mean returning to five days a week school . " 
On the payroll tax cut : The White House has acknowledged that it dropped the payroll tax cut , something that Republican senators indicated would do little to stimulate the economy . 
On tracing and testing : And the White House agreed to ramp up testing to $ 25 billion after suggesting that there was already plenty of unspent money to use for testing and contact tracing . 
The GOP deal would provide $ 16 billion in new money , with an additional $ 9 billion redirected from the March stimulus law to spend on testing and tracing . 
" We did get the $ 25 billion we wanted , but part of it was being sure they were gonna spend $ 9 billion that was not specifically allocated to testing on testing , " Blunt said . 
How this unfolded : Several Republicans pointed out that the White House had to move quickly in the GOP direction in order to get a deal together . 
Sen . 
Thom Tillis , a North Carolina Republican up for reelection , contended he was not concerned that it took all week to get their party 's proposal together , but noted the White House " moved in our direction . " 
Sen . 
Lamar Alexander , who chairs the Senate Health , Education , Labor and Pensions Committee , said a key issue that the White House and Senate GOP agreed to was how to defer student loan payments . 
He said the two agreed to continue deferring student loan payments after October " if you do not have any income but once you start making the income , you 'll never have to pay more than 10 percent of it on your student loan after you deduct , rent , mortgage and food . " 
Asked about Trump 's claim that testing is " overrated , " Alexander pushed back . 
" I can give you my opinion on testing which is that testing is essential , " Alexander said . 
" And I think probably the most important activity we have going on in the government right now in terms of identifying the disease , containing it , and creating confidence to go back to school and that work is the work Dr . [ Francis ] Collins is doing in the National Institutes of Health to create new ways to get a quick test so you can get a result within an hour . " 
Alexander added : " You can do that , then you can test whole classes , you can test teachers , you can test employees , there ’ll be an oversupply of quick tests and I think all the discussions about testing with disappear . " 
CNN 's Rebecca Grandahl contributed to this report 
