Europe is grappling with a second coronavirus surge . 
Here 's how it 's playing out across the continent : Spain The country recorded its highest number of cases since the lockdown lifted on Thursday , with 9,658 new infections . 
Fernando Simón , director of the country 's Center for Health Emergencies , attempted to allay concerns , saying the " situation is completely different to the one we had in March or April . " 
Extra measures have been put in place to bolster the school system , including mask mandates for all students over the age of six . 
Other new measures announced on Thursday includes a bubble system in schools , students having to disinfect their hands five times a day , and regular classroom sanitization . 
Some Spanish regions have placed a cap of 20 students per classroom . 
France A compulsory mask rule came into force in Paris and its suburbs on Friday , which means over 7 million Parisians will have to wear a face covering in public -- even when on a bike or scooter . 
On Thursday , France saw the highest number of new cases since March 31 -- the peak of the epidemic -- with 6,111 new cases . 
Prime Minister Jean Castex also declared 21 " red zones " across the country , which refers to areas where the active cases have exceeded 50 per 100,000 people . 
UK The UK continues to be hit by local outbreaks , with 75 positive cases in a poultry factory in Norfolk , eastern England . 
Hundreds of workers at the Banham poultry facility have been told to self isolate as a result of the 22 % infection rate . 
The UK removed the Czech Republic , Jamaica and Switzerland from its travel corridor list on Thursday , in a bid to keep infections down . 
Yet cases are also rising in the country , which reported 1,522 new infections on Thursday , the highest number since June 12 . 
Italy Italy is also observing an upward trend with 1,179 positive new cases reported on Thursday , the highest number since May 6 , and five deaths . 
Ireland Some 93 new cases were recorded by Ireland 's Health Protection Service Surveillance Center on Thursday . 
The Irish government remains watchful after a spike in cases during the last fortnight prompted a tightening of social distancing measures . 
Germany Germany recorded 1,507 cases on Thursday , according to the Robert Koch Institute , which noted the marked rise in cases in a number of federal states . 
The institute also predicted that by early 2021 there will be a successful vaccine candidate ready for production . 
It noted , however , that there will not be enough initial doses available for the entire population . 
