A lawyer turned citizen journalist reporting from in Wuhan , the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak , has been forcibly quarantined , friends and relatives said on Friday . 
Chen Qiushi had been posting videos from Wuhan since January 24 , the day after the city was put under lockdown . 
His dispatches offered a critical take on conditions in the city , including the state of hospitals as well as newly constructed isolation wards . 
Chen ’s videos and comments have featured in CNN ’s reporting . 
His forced removal and quarantine comes less than 24 hours after the death of doctor Li Wenliang , who was also reprimanded by the state for revealing what he knew of the coronavirus outbreak . 
" I ’m scared , I have the virus in front of me and behind me China ’s law enforcement , " Chen told viewers in an emotional video recorded on January 30 before his disappearance . 
" But I will keep my spirits up , as long as I ’m alive and in this city I will continue my reports , " he said . 
Chen ’s videos and personal accounts have been censored from Chinese social media sites , but he continued to post on Twitter and You Tube , where his most watched videos were regularly seen by more than a million people . 
His friends told CNN they had been checking in with him multiple times a day , fearing he could be taken by the authorities at any time for his reporting . 
When he stopped answering calls at around 7 or 8 p.m . on Thursday , February 6 they grew increasingly concerned . 
At 2:18 a.m . on Friday , February 7 , Chen ’s mother posted a video message on his Twitter page saying her son had disappeared . 
" I ’m here to beg everyone online , especially friends in Wuhan to help find Qiushi , find out what ’s going on with him . " 
Later that evening in a live broadcast , Xu Xiaodong , a famous MMA wrestler and friend of Chen , played a message from Chen ’s mother saying he had been forcibly quarantined . 
" In the last few hours the Qingdao public security officers and state security officers … notified Qiushi ’s parents that Qiushi has already been detained in the name of quarantine . 
Qiushi ’s mother immediately asked them where and when he was taken away , they declined to say , " said Xu . 
Xu stressed that based on his interactions with Chen and the testimony of those on the ground , Chen had been in good health prior to his disappearance . 
Both Wuhan city police and Qingdao city police said they had no information about Chen when contacted by CNN . 
" We ’re worried for his physical safety but also worried that while he ’s missing he might get infected by the virus , " a friend who had been authorized by Chen to take over his Twitter account should he disappear told CNN . 
The individual requested anonymity for fear of reprisals by the government . 
" ( When ) I saw there was still no information from him at all I started to feel a bit panicked and also slightly angry , " the friend told CNN . 
