A study published Friday in the Journal of the American Medical Association ( JAMA ) found that 41 % of the first 138 patients diagnosed at one hospital in Wuhan , China , were presumed to be infected in that hospital . 
This is big news . 
In plain English , it means that nearly half of the initial infections in this hospital appear to have been spread within the hospital itself . 
This is called nosocomial transmission . 
( Doctors use big words to hide bad things : Nosocomial means caught it in the hospital . ) 
What 's more , most spread does not appear to have been the result of a so called " super spreader event , " in which a single patient transmits infection to many other people . 
In these — where a doctor inserts a tube into the patient 's lungs — can result in many infections . 
This would be a concern , but not nearly as much as what appears to have happened : Many health care workers and many patients got infected in many parts of the hospital . 
What 's more , since there 's a broad spectrum of infection and only patients who were sick were tested , it 's quite likely that there was even more transmission in the hospital . 
So , like SARS and MERS — other coronaviruses — before it , the Wuhan coronavirus is spreading in hospitals . 
What does this mean ? 
The virus appears to be quite infectious , health care workers are at especially high risk , and we urgently need more information about just how infectious the virus is . 
The virus might well be impossible to contain — just as the common cold and influenza ca not be stopped , but the health and societal impacts can be blunted . 
China 's extraordinary efforts to stop the spread of the virus , even if unsuccessful , may slow its spread and improve China and the world 's ability to limit the harm the virus causes . 
Dr . Tom Frieden is the former director of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , and former commissioner of the New York City Health Department . 
He is currently president and CEO of Resolve to Save Lives , a global non profit initiative funded by Bloomberg Philanthropies , the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative , and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and part of the global non profit Vital Strategies . 
