Analysis of new satellite images from the European Space Agency shows a dramatic reduction in pollution levels over India since a nationwide coronavirus lockdown was imposed three weeks ago . 
The analysis from the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air ( CREA ) , an environmental organization , used satellite images from Sentinel 5P -- part of the European Space Agency program -- along with ground monitoring from CAAQMS ( Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring System ) . 
" The analysis showed us drastic and clear reductions in pollution levels , which are a resultant of decreasing fossil fuel consumption in transportation , industries and energy sector , " the CREA report says . 
An economy on lockdown : India , a nation of 1.3 billion people , has ground to a halt as a result of the lockdown , which has seen transport networks suspended , construction work halted , and factories , markets , and places of worship closed . 
Before and after images of major cities including Mumbai , New Delhi , Bengalaru , Chennai and Hyderabad show that since the shutdown began on March 24 , nitrogen dioxide ( NO2 ) emissions over the cities -- depicted in orange -- has mostly cleared . 
Nitrogen dioxide , which is released by vehicles and power plants , is a harmful pollutant which contributes to the deaths of 4.2 million people annually worldwide , according to the World Health Organization . 
" Hot spots over major cities as well as major industrial/coal combustion dominated areas have reduced significantly , " due to " falling pollution levels , " the report says . 
" The current crisis has shown us that clear skies and breathable air can be achieved very fast if concrete actions towards reducing burning of fossil fuels are taken , " said the report 's co author , CREA analyst Sunil Dayiha . 
" We feel that this could be the turning point for India towards securing the right to breathe and life for citizens of the country . " 
India has 21 of 30 of the world ’s most polluted cities , according to the IQAir Air Visual 's 2019 World Air Quality Report . 
Last week , people in the northern Indian state of Punjab reported that they could see the Himalayas for the first time in decades , due to the reduction in pollution . 
