Twenty six states report that 50 % or more of their Covid 19 deaths occurred in long term care facilities ( LTCFs ) – such as nursing homes and group homes – according to a report by three doctors at Boston Medical Center and Boston University School of Medicine . 
Minnesota and Rhode Island top the list , each reporting that 81 % of Covid 19 deaths occurred in long term care facilities , followed by Connecticut with 71 % and New Hampshire with 70 % . 
New York reported the lowest proportion of Covid 19 deaths in long term care facilities : 21 % . 
The study authors say that is likely a " gross underestimate " caused in part by lack of available coronavirus testing in long term care facilities , coupled with the fact that Covid 19 deaths were only counted as such if they were backed by a positive test . 
Eleven states do not report the number of Covid 19 deaths that occur in long term care facilities , which the authors say has contributed to an underestimate of the total number of Covid 19 deaths in the United States . 
How is this compared to other countries ? 
The study authors write that the numbers are not out of line with what many other countries are reporting . 
" Most other countries with large numbers of LTCFs are likely also experiencing a greater than 50 % rate of their COVID 19 deaths within LTCFs . 
The World Health Organization estimates that half of COVID 19 deaths in Europe and the Baltics are among their 4.1 million LTCF residents , " they write . 
" Once France began to include LTCF deaths in its count , the country ’s death rate nearly doubled . 
Canada ’s National Institute on Aging indicated on May 6 that 82 % of the country ’s COVID 19 deaths had been in long term care settings . " 
Why are nursing homes and other long term care facilities so vulnerable ? 
Among the many reasons , the article notes that they have " a high density of people with a combination of the strongest risk factors for COVID 19 associated severe illness and death : old age and multiple morbidities . " 
The CDC indicates that 39 % of the 1.3 million nursing home residents in the U.S . are 85 and older . 
This analysis used data from 40 states and Washington , DC , from the Kaiser Family Foundation and from the Massachusetts Department of Health . 
It was published in the Journal of the American Geriatrics Society on Friday . 
