London 's Mayor Sadiq Khan has hit back at government criticism over the capital 's tube network running a reduced service amid the Covid 19 outbreak , telling local news outlets that Transport for London ( TFL ) is operating the maximum number of tube services it can , while maintaining safety . 
" We ’re running the maximum tubes we can , as safely as we can . 
That roughly means that there are 55 % of the tubes running , " Khan said Tuesday in an interview with Channel 4 News . 
The London 's mayor 's remarks come after images of London 's tube services circulated Tuesday morning depicting crowded trains , despite the virtual lockdown imposed by the government on Monday . 
Earlier on Tuesday , UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock criticized Transport for London 's decision to run a reduced service , suggesting that an increase in the number of tubes running would allow members of the public to adhere to the government 's social distancing guidelines , while traveling on the underground network . 
" TFL should have the tube running in full so that people travelling on the tube can be spaced out and further apart , obeying the two metre rule as best possible , " Hancock said during the government 's daily Covid 19 press briefing . 
" There is no good reason in the information that I 've seen that the current levels of tube provision should be as low as they are . 
We should have more tube trains running , " the Health Secretary added . 
Speaking to BBC London , Khan denounced the " blame game being played " by Hancock , highlighting the " heroic " work being carried out by TFL staff , and the pressure placed on TFL by the number of staff members who are off work . 
" About a third of TFL staff are off work , mainly because of themselves having Covid 19 , or members of their family having the symptoms , which means they are self isolating ... 
TFL are running the maximum service they ’re able to do safely , with the number of staff that they have got , " Khan asserted . 
