Susan Bailey , a 57 year old retired nurse from Florida , has had all her jabs and gets a flu shot every year . 
She 's a vocal Joe Biden supporter -- and one of a growing number of people globally who say they would not take a coronavirus vaccine even if one becomes available soon . 
" I 'm not anti vaccine . 
My kids were both vaccinated with everything , but I would not take a Covid vaccine today , " Bailey told CNN . 
" I have underlying health issues ... 
I would want to see enough studies in a long term period of what the ramifications are for the vaccine . " 
Bailey said she does not trust US President Donald Trump , and that consensus around a vaccine among the world 's top scientists and at least six months of testing would be just " a start " in persuading her to take it . 
" It 's much too soon for me , I 'd have to say , 18 months . " 
Neil Johnson , a physicist at George Washington University who is studying vaccine skepticism on social media , told CNN the four most common objections are : safety ; whether a vaccine is needed ; trust of the establishment and pharmaceutical companies ; and perceived uncertainty in the science . 
To see how widespread hesitancy is , he suggests asking your family and friends whether they would take a Covid 19 vaccine if one were available now . 
" I would be surprised if you ask 10 people and you get all 10 jumping and saying yes without adding any caveats , " he said . 
Powerful tool : Scientists say vaccines are our most effective tool in combating infectious diseases , preventing 6 million deaths every year . 
Numerous studies have proven that they are safe . 
Dr . Anthony Fauci , the top US epidemiologist , said that widespread uptake of a coronavirus vaccine could end the pandemic and a study in The Lancet medical journal found that it was the only way to fully end lockdowns . 
Yet an Associated Press/NORC Center for Public Affairs online poll from May indicated half of Americans would hesitate to take or refuse a vaccine , and a study by King 's College London last week found similar results in the UK . 
Read more : 
