The percentage of Covid 19 tests taken in New York state that have come back positive has inched up to 1.5 % , governor Andrew Cuomo said , a worrisome trend for the former centre of the US coronavirus epidemic . 
The rise in New York above the 1 % positive target comes as 27 other US states recorded increases in the number of positive cases for two straight weeks . 
While New York ’s rate remains much lower than that in some midwestern states , where over 15 % of tests are coming back positive , it marks a significant uptick in its rate , which has hovered at 1 % or below for weeks . 
" It ’s basically Brooklyn , Orange and Rockland that are increasing this number , " Cuomo told reporters on Monday , adding that state health officials were looking into Covid 19 clusters in these areas . 
Nationwide , coronavirus cases were rising in 30 of the 50 US states on Monday , the first time that many states have trended upwards since 2 August , according to a Reuters analysis of data for the past two weeks . 
The number of new cases has risen for two weeks in a row in 27 out of 50 states , with North Carolina and New Mexico both reporting increases above 50 % last week , according to Reuters . 
Cases in New York state have risen 4.4 % so far in September , one of the smallest increases in the country . 
Cuomo urged New Yorkers to remain vigilant in mask wearing and warned of consequences if they do not comply . 
" It ’s not time to get tired because the virus is not tired , " he said . 
The midwest has emerged as the country ’s new hotspot , with hospitalisations surging in some states . 
Wisconsin set records for new cases twice last week and is now reporting more new infections each day than Florida . 
South Dakota , Utah and Wyoming have all set records for new daily cases three times this month . 
The positive rate has risen to 26 % in South Dakota , up from 17 % last week , according to an analysis using data from the Covid Tracking Project , a volunteer run effort to track the outbreak . 
On Monday , according to the analysis , the rate in Wisconsin was 19 % ; it was 16 % in both Iowa and Missouri ; 
15 % in Kansas ; and 14 % in Nebraska . 
The World Health Organization considers rates above 5 % concerning because this suggests there are more cases in the community that have not yet been uncovered . 
Infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci told ABC ’s Good Morning America on Monday he was concerned about the trend as the weather in the US gets colder and people spend more time indoors , increasing the likelihood of spread . 
" We ’re not in a good place ... because as we get into the fall and the winter you really want the level of community spread to be as low as you can possibly get it , " Fauci said . 
The US is reporting 45,000 new infections on average each day , compared with 40,000 a week ago and 35,000 two weeks ago . Deaths have generally been trending downward in the US for about six weeks . 
Deaths are a lagging indicator , however , and can take several weeks to rise after an increase in cases . 
