Clusters of novel coronavirus outbreaks are spreading as cases surge in South Korea , Iran and Italy , though the World Health Organization ( WHO ) said it is still too early to declare a pandemic . 
Here 's what you should know : The numbers : The novel coronavirus has infected at least 80,067 people worldwide and killed 2,698 . 
Some 35 of those deaths occurred outside mainland China . 
In China , the vast majority of cases and deaths remain concentrated in Hubei province , the epicenter of the outbreak . 
Areas of concern : South Korea reported 60 cases overnight , bringing the total there to 893 . 
Iran is on the front line of the outbreak -- the health ministry has confirmed 61 cases and 12 deaths -- though one lawmaker in the city of Qom claims the death toll could be as high as 50 . 
Iran 's health ministry denies those claims . 
In Italy , about 100,000 people are affected by travel restrictions as seven people have died and at least 229 others have been infected with the virus . 
More countries report first cases : Oman has announced its first two cases of the virus , after two Omani women returning from Iran tested positive . 
Meanwhile , an Iranian student who entered Iraq prior to the country 's travel ban on Iran has been confirmed to have the virus . 
Markets are nervous : US stocks plunged on mounting worries about the spread of the coronavirus outside China to major economies . 
The Dow Jones index finished down more than 1,000 points at the closing bell on Monday , its worst day since February 2018 . 
Outbreak is not a pandemic : Mike Ryan , executive director of the WHO 's health emergencies program , said it 's too early to declare the novel coronavirus a pandemic -- but now is the time to prepare . 
WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the virus has pandemic potential -- but it ’s not there yet . 
Military drills on hold : The US and South Korea are considering scaling back joint military exercises due to the coronavirus on the Korean Peninsula . 
The situation in the US : There are now 53 confirmed cases of novel coronavirus in the US , according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , 36 of whom were aboard the Diamond Princess cruise ship . 
Meanwhile , Alabama 's mayor said the state was not prepared to handle coronavirus patients . 
President Donald Trump tweeted today that " The Coronavirus is very much under control in the USA . " 
Closing access to Iran : Due to Iran 's outbreak , Oman has suspended flights to and from the country . 
Turkey , Pakistan and Iraq have closed their borders with Iran , while Kuwait Airways , Iraq Airways and Turkey have suspended flights to the country . 
Meanwhile , the United Arab Emirates is banning its citizens from traveling to Iran and Thailand . 
