CVS , in partnership with government agencies , is adding two drive through coronavirus testing sites less than a week after CNN reported on the anemic progress of a program President Trump touted as part of his solution to expand testing . 
The retailer announced it ’s using a new rapid coronavirus test , which can provide results in less than 15 minutes and was approved by US Food and Drug Administration under an emergency authorization last week , according to a company press release . 
Its two new locations — in Georgia and Rhode Island — will utilize licensed health care providers from its Minute Clinic , the company ’s retail medical clinic , to oversee the testing , said the press release . 
The retailer made clear that the sites will not be located at CVS Pharmacy or Minute Clinic locations . 
Some background : Under fire for the lack of testing , the Trump administration on March 13 announced a public private partnership between the government and major retailers including CVS , Target , Walmart and Walgreens . 
Vice President Mike Pence said the program " laid the foundation " to help meet the nation 's testing needs by giving a " little bit of their parking lot so that people can come by and do a drive by test . " 
But the administration ’s celebrated announcement has not come close to being fulfilled . 
While these retailers have approximately 30,000 locations combined , the Department of Health and Human Services confirmed last week that only five locations from these major retailers were offering drive thru testing — and none are open to the general public at the time . 
Instead , the sites were only testing healthcare workers and first responders . 
The one site CVS previously opened in Shrewsbury , Massachusetts was also testing senior citizens with symptoms . 
After CNN ’s story on March 31 , Walmart announced a plan to open a drive thru coronavirus testing site for first responders and healthcare workers in Arkansas — it ’s third location in the U.S . 
For its two new locations , CVS will not be using its parking lot . 
Instead it worked with local government officials to identify parking lots that are easily accessible and able to accommodate multiple lanes of cars at one time : one at a multi level parking garage at the Georgia Institute of Technology . 
The other — in Rhode Island — will be located at Twin Rivers Casino . 
Unlike previously opened testing drive throughs , the new CVS locations will be testing a broader population . 
People who meet US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention criteria , in addition to state residency and age guidelines , are eligible for testing . 
Patients will need to pre register in advance online at CVS.com in order to schedule a same day time slot for testing , said the release . 
CNN ’s Kaitlan Collins contributed to this report 
