For children and adolescents under 18 , effects of coronavirus are generally mild , and fatalities are rare , European researchers reported Thursday . 
Only four children died out of 582 in the study , which was conducted at the height of the pandemic in Europe , the researchers reported in the journal Lancet Child and Adolescent Health . 
Only 8 % required intensive care . 
The study affirms what doctors have been finding : children are far less likely than adults to suffer serious effects of coronavirus . 
But children were not completely spared . 
While only 4 % of the children needed ventilators to help them breathe , some required ventilation for a month . 
Children under the age of one month and those with preexisting health issues were more likely to require intensive care . 
Some of them had more than one infection and 24 % of those with additional respiratory infections such as cold or flu viruses required intensive care . 
Only 7 % of children without co infections required intensive care . 
" This could have important implications for the upcoming winter season , when cold and flu infections will be more common , " said Dr . Begoña Santiago Garcia of University Hospital Gregorio Marañón in Madrid , Spain , who worked on the study . 
Because the participants included only patients who sought medical help and had been tested for coronavirus , researchers noted that the study skewed towards more severe cases than reflected in the general population . 
" Overall , the vast majority of young people experience only mild disease , " said Dr . Marc Tebruegge of the Great Ormond Street Institute of Child Health in London , who helped lead the study . 
" Nevertheless , a notable number of children do develop severe disease and require intensive care support , and this should be accounted for when planning and prioritizing healthcare resources as the pandemic progresses . " 
The study noted that research on treatment for children , including antiviral and immunomodulatory drugs , is urgently needed . 
The most common symptom reported was fever , while about 16 % of participants had no symptoms at all . 
