People who decline to be vaccinated against coronavirus in Spain will be listed in a new registry that will be shared with European Union Member states , Spain ’s Health Minister Salvador Illa said in a television interview on Monday . 
Speaking to Spain ’s La Sexta TV , Illa stressed that the information will not be made public , in line with Spain ’s data protection laws , and vaccinations will not be made compulsory . 
However , health care professionals have since weighed in , saying the idea presents potential dangers . 
" The most important thing is to know how the registry will be used , " said Jose Luis Cobos , the deputy director of the Spanish General Council of Nursing . 
" If it ’s for public health purposes to better understand COVID , and it ’s anonymous , that ’s one thing . 
But if it ’s ‘ I ’m now on the list of the bad people , ’ that ’s another thing . 
We do not think a registry should be used to infringe on liberties , or for employers against people , " he added . 
Hours after Illa ’s television interview Monday , the head of Spain ’s Medicines Agency , Maria Jesus Lamas , told Spain ’s SER radio that the new registry would be used " to understand the causes behind declining the vaccination…doubt or rejection . " 
" The registry is anonymous . 
There ’s no chance of identifying anyone in the registry , " she added . 
Spain ’s 17 regional governments administer vaccines across the nation , and in the southern region of Andalusia , people currently appear in a registry only if they get a vaccine , including its batch number and who administered it for quality control , an Andalusia health department spokesperson told CNN . 
The spokesperson also noted that there is no registry for members of the general public who decline vaccinations , although Andalusia health care workers must sign a document if they refuse a vaccination . 
Spain has the world ’s ninth largest number of coronavirus cases , at more than 1.8 million , and the tenth highest number of deaths , at just over 50,000 , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
