The coronavirus pandemic shows no signs of slowing in the US and Europe , which are reporting exponential increases in the number of new cases daily . 
Meanwhile in Asia , a spike in Japan is causing concern as other parts of the region stabilize . 
Here are the latest developments : The US has reached 1,000 cases : Washington is still the hardest hit state , but New York and California are not too far behind , and Massachusetts is now nearing 100 cases . 
Many states have declared states of emergency , and universities nationwide are closing early or conducting online classes . 
There has been an uptick in testing nationwide in recent days , according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . 
A lack of available testing has led to frustration of state and local officials , and there has been confusion over the number of testing kits that have been mailed out . 
Life under lockdown in Italy : Town squares are empty , schools are closed , public events canceled , and people are staying home , under lockdown measures implemented Monday across the entire country . 
Experts say these measures may help slow the spread of the virus as Italy 's healthcare system creaks under the weight of the outbreak -- but it has also led to desperation and tragedy , like the case of an Italian woman stuck at home with the body of her husband , who died of the virus , because of strict quarantine protocols . 
Meanwhile in South Korea : The country had reported a drop in daily reported cases earlier this week , with health officials cautiously hopeful that it may indicate a slowdown in infection . 
But South Korea reported 242 new cases and 6 more deaths yesterday , and identified a new cluster in the capital Seoul -- a reminder that the outbreak is not by any means over . 
Sporting events canceled : Matches and events worldwide are being played behind closed doors , suspended or postponed as the virus spreads . 
The English Premier League fixture between Manchester City and Arsenal , scheduled for Wednesday , was postponed and players quarantined after potential exposure to a patient . 
And there is still a question over the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games , which organizers insist will continue as planned -- despite calls for cancellations and a rise in Japan 's cases . 
