More than 15,000 mink in the United States have died of the coronavirus since August , and authorities are keeping about a dozen farms under quarantine while they investigate the cases , state agriculture officials said . 
Global health officials are eying the animals as a potential risk for people after Denmark embarked on a plan to cull all of its 17 million mink . 
Amid growing political opposition , the Danish prime minister , Mette Frederiksen , admitted the cull she authorised last week was illegal . 
The US states of Utah , Wisconsin and Michigan - where the coronavirus has killed mink - said they do not plan to cull animals and are monitoring the situation in Denmark . 
" We believe that quarantining affected mink farms in addition to implementing stringent biosecurity measures will succeed in controlling SARS Co V 2 at these locations , " the US Department of Agriculture told Reuters on Tuesday . 
The USDA said it is working with the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , state officials and the mink industry to test and monitor infected farms . 
The United States has 359,850 mink bred to produce babies , known as kits , and produced 2.7 million pelts last year . 
Wisconsin is the largest mink producing state , followed by Utah . 
Sick mink in Wisconsin and Utah were exposed to people with probable or confirmed Covid 19 cases , the USDA said . 
In Michigan it is still unknown if the mink were infected by humans , according to the agency . 
In Utah , the first US state to confirm mink infections in August , about 10,700 mink have died on nine farms , said Dean Taylor , state veterinarian . 
" On all nine , everything is still suggesting a one way travel from people to the minks , " he said . 
Coronavirus testing has been done on mink that die and randomly on the affected farms , Taylor said . 
Like people , some mink are asymptomatic or mildly affected , he said . 
The CDC said it was supporting states ’ investigations into sick mink , including testing of animals and people . 
These investigations will help us to learn more about the transmission dynamics between mink , other animals around the farms and people . 
Currently , there is no evidence that animals play a significant role in the spread of SARS Co V 2 to people . 
In Wisconsin , about 5,000 mink have died on two farms , State Veterinarian Darlene Konkle said . 
One farm is composting the dead mink to dispose of the carcasses without spreading the virus , Konkle said . 
Authorities are working with the second farm to determine how to dispose of the mink , and dead animals are being kept in a metal container in the meantime , she said . 
Michigan declined to disclose how many mink have died , citing privacy rules . 
US authorities are urging farmers to wear protective gear like masks and gloves when handling mink to avoid infecting the animals . 
State officials said they are working with the USDA to determine whether farmers can sell the pelts of infected mink . 
The pelts are used to make fur coats and other items . 
" It ’s our desire and certainly the owners ’ desire to be able to use those pelts , " Konkle said . 
The coronavirus has also infected cats , dogs , a lion and a tiger , according to the USDA . 
Experts say mink appear to be the most susceptible animal so far . 
Taylor said : Whatever we learn about mink is going to help understand the virus across species . 
It ’s going to give us a better response to people to stop this pandemic . 
