In Asia , the spotlight remains on South Korea , which has the largest number of patients outside mainland China . 
South Korea : Around half of the country 's 5,766 cases are linked to a branch of the Shincheonji religious group . 
In response , South Korean President Moon Jae in said on Tuesday that the country " has entered a war against " the coronavirus . 
The government has proposed an extra budget of about $ 9.8 billion in response and recovery , which will be submitted for approval on Thursday . 
Authorities have aggressively rolled out testing across the country , even setting up drive through testing stations where people can get tested in minutes . 
They have also employed creative technologies in this " war , " like a GPS system that sets off an alarm when patients violate quarantine at home . 
Information campaigns : In South Korea , and other places in Asia like Singapore and Hong Kong , there have been massive information campaigns to educate the public on basic but crucial preventative measures like washing hands , staying away from crowds , and not touching your face . 
Social distancing : Millions are still working from home across Asia , with both government departments and private companies implementing flexible or remote working arrangements for better social distancing . 
Events and public gatherings have been canceled for the same reason -- in Japan , the Rugby Sevens invitational tournament was canceled over coronavirus fears . 
Panic buying : Governments in these places have also had to address unexpected issues like panic buying , which saw toilet rolls and face masks sell out across supermarkets in Hong Kong . 
The same issue is now being seen in Australia , which announced additional cases this week after nearly a month of no new cases -- images from cities like Sydney and Brisbane show empty grocery store aisles and crowds jostling for products . 
In response , governments have urged people not to panic buy , and said that there was no threat to supply . 
Supermarkets have also imposed limits on how much shoppers can buy of items like toilet roll . 
Read more here on what other countries are doing to contain the outbreak . 
