Senior scientific figures have played down the significance of the confirmation that a case of coronavirus has been confirmed in the UK ’s largest population centre . 
Dr Michael Tildesley , associate professor in mathematical epidemiology at the University of Warwick , has said : It has been confirmed this is a case where an individual has travelled from China and has been detected whilst in London . 
So we do not have enough evidence at this stage to say that it is spreading in London - we have had an introduction of the virus to London from an individual that has travelled from China but as yet , no reported human to human transmission as a result of this new case . 
There always remains the risk of introduction of cases into the UK from international travellers and it is difficult to predict where future introductions may occur . 
So it ’s not surprising that there is a case in London since it is the main UK hub for international travellers . 
What needs to be done at this stage is to carry out contact tracing , in a similar way that has been done for other cases , in order to detect any contacts as rapidly as possible and if they show symptoms of the disease , follow the necessary protocols to minimise the risk of them causing further infections . 
It is important of course that people remain vigilant and minimise their own risk of being infected but at this stage it is too early to say the extent of the risk of onward transmission as a result of this new case . " 
Dr Michael Head , senior research fellow in global health at the University of Southampton , has said : If confirmed , it is not surprising that London has seen its first case of the coronavirus . 
It ’s a city of over 10 million people with several major international airports . 
Both London and the rest of the UK can expect to see more cases , though hopefully these will continue to be isolated cases and seen in small numbers . 
It should also be noted that , of the 1,750 tests carried out so far in the UK , more than 99 % of those tested have been negative for the coronavirus . 
Thus , risks to Londoners and UK residents remain low though people should continue to keep an eye on guidance for the general public . 
