A spike in gun purchases during the early months of the coronavirus pandemic was associated with a nearly 8 % increase in firearm violence in the US , according to a new estimate from researchers at the University of California , Davis . 
That increase translated into an estimated 776 additional shooting injuries in the US from March through May , the researchers found . 
The pandemic appears to have inspired Americans to make 2.1m more gun purchases than under typical circumstances . 
The new estimates , the first to quantify the effects of coronavirus gun buying , come from the preprint of a study conducted by one of the leading US gun violence researchers . 
The results have not yet gone through peer review or been published in a research journal . 
" We wanted to get this research out as soon as possible , because obviously there are important implications for public health and public safety , " said Julia Schleimer , a research data analyst at the University of California Firearm Violence Research Center , and one of the study ’s authors . 
The researchers looked at increases in gun purchases and changes in firearms violence across 48 states and the District of Columbia . 
They found that many demographic factors – including overall rates of firearm ownership , socioeconomic status , how urban a state was and levels of residential segregation by race – did not seem to make a difference in the relationship between increased gun purchases and firearms violence . 
But states that had lower levels of violent crime pre Covid saw a stronger connection between additional gun purchases and more gun violence . 
The study used data from the Gun Violence Archive , which publishes information on shootings and firearms deaths based on media reports . 
The study did not examine the effect of firearms purchase increases on gun suicide , which represent the majority of gun deaths in the US . 
States that ordered gun stores to be closed at some point during the pandemic , rather than naming them as essential businesses that could stay open , on average had smaller overall increases in gun purchases . 
