Dr . Deborah Birx on Sunday said the US is in a new phase in its fight against the coronavirus pandemic , saying that the deadly virus is more widespread than when it first took hold in the US earlier this year . 
Birx stressed that Americans need to follow health recommendations , including wearing a mask and practicing social distancing . 
" To everybody who lives in a rural area , you are not immune or protected from this virus , " Birx said . 
" If you 're in multi generational households , and there 's an outbreak in your rural area or in your city , you need to really consider wearing a mask at home , assuming that you 're positive , if you have individuals in your households with comorbidities . " 
" This epidemic right now is different and it 's more widespread and it 's both rural and urban , " she added . 
A new ensemble forecast , published by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , projects more than 173,000 American deaths by August 22 , and former US Food and Drug Administrator Dr . Scott Gottlieb warned on CNBC last month that the coronavirus death toll could double to 300,000 deaths by the end of the year , if the country does not change its trajectory . 
On Sunday , Birx would not give a projection of how many deaths the US would see by the end of year , but she said a death toll largely depends on southern and western states to maintain and accelerate their mitigation efforts . 
Those states have become hot spots for the virus . 
" It 's not super spreading individuals , it 's super spreading events and we need to stop those . 
We definitely need to take more precautions , " Birx told Bash . 
Asked if it was time to reset the federal government response to the pandemic , Birx said , " I think the federal government reset about five to six weeks ago when we saw this starting to happen across the south . " 
Meanwhile , more than 4.6 million Americans have been infected and at least 154,859 have died from coronavirus , according to Johns Hopkins University data . 
California leads the country in total cases , followed by Florida and Texas . 
