Boris Johnson has issued a plea to parents to send their children back to the classroom when schools reopen next month . 
The UK prime minister said the risk of contracting coronavirus in schools is " very small " , and that pupils face greater harm by continuing to stay away from the classroom . 
Many pupils in England have not been to class since March when schools were closed except to look after vulnerable children and those of keyworkers . 
Schools in Scotland reopened earlier this month , while those in England , Wales and Northern Ireland are expected to welcome all pupils from the beginning of September . 
Johnson said : " I have previously spoken about the moral duty to reopen schools to all pupils safely , and I would like to thank the school staff who have spent the summer months making classrooms Covid secure in preparation for a full return in September . 
" We have always been guided by our scientific and medical experts , and we now know far more about coronavirus than we did earlier this year . 
" As the Chief Medical Officer has said , the risk of contracting Covid 19 in school is very small and it is far more damaging for a child ’s development and their health and wellbeing to be away from school any longer . 
" This is why it ’s vitally important that we get our children back into the classroom to learn and to be with their friends . 
Nothing will have a greater effect on the life chances of our children than returning to school . " 
In response , Liberal Democrat education spokeswoman Layla Moran said : " The government must rapidly upscale Test and Trace and ensure schools have the mental health support , financial resources and the use of community spaces they need ahead of opening fully . 
" The country , and seemingly the prime minister , has lost faith in Gavin Williamson [ the education secretary ] . 
To restore confidence among parents , pupils and teachers the best thing the prime minister could do is sack him , rather than speak for him . " 
