Most Americans now accept the benefits of wearing masks when around others and say they do so , according to a survey published Friday . 
Most also say they can keep up the social distancing until the pandemic has eased or until there ’s a vaccine -- and most think they ’ll need to . 
The Kaiser Family Foundation ( KFF ) survey found that just over half think the worst of the coronavirus pandemic is yet to come . 
The survey of more than 1,600 adults , conducted by the nonpartisan foundation , found that deep partisan divides persist , but more people than ever worry the pandemic will affect them personally . 
These fears may have motivated people to accept public health advice about wearing masks and staying away from other people . 
Survey question : How often , if at all , do you wear a protective mask when you leave your house and might be in contact with other people ? 
96 % of those polled said some , most or all of the time 23 % felt wearing a mask is a personal choice 73 % felt mask use " is part of everyone ’s responsibility to protect the health of others . " 
" Republican denialism mirroring President Trump , even in the face of a growing epidemic in red states , has become a real public health challenge that the incoming administration will need to take on , " Kaiser Family Foundation President and CEO Drew Altman said in a statement . 
A quarter of those surveyed said " The worst is behind us " when it comes to the pandemic , while 51 % said the worst is yet to come . 
But 19 % said " The coronavirus is or will not be a major problem in the U.S . " Survey question : Starting today , how much longer do you think you can follow social distancing in order to limit the spread of coronavirus in your community ? 
75 % said they could tough it out another four to six months at least 70 % said they could wait until a vaccine was widely available , even if that means six more months of restrictions 9 % said they wo not follow social distancing restrictions at all . 
