US Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Dr . Stephen Hahn denied again on Monday that his agency had been pressured to authorize the use of plasma from coronavirus survivors as a Covid 19 treatment , but apologized for how he characterized data used in the decision . 
Some context : The White House announced the emergency authorization at a news briefing on Sunday , where President Donald Trump called the decision " historic . " 
But Trump also suggested he pressured the agency . 
" I think there might have been a holdup , but we broke the logjam over the last week , to be honest , " Trump said at the briefing . 
FDA 's response : Hahn told CNN Sunday he had not been pressured . 
In a series of tweets Monday , he repeated that assertion . 
" Media coverage of FDA ’s decision to issue emergency authorization for convalescent plasma has questioned whether this was a politically motivated decision . 
The decision was made by FDA career scientists based on data submitted a few weeks ago , " Hahn tweeted . 
" They had confidence that convalescent plasma has potential to benefit many sick patients and the safety profile is well defined , " he added . 
" The decision was based on significant data from the Mayo Clinic and other reliable sources plus a century of experience with convalescent plasma . " 
But Hahn apologized for how he presented the data . 
He had previously said that the Mayo Clinic data showed use of convalescent plasma reduced the risk of death by 35 % , and said that meant if 100 people got coronavirus , 35 would survive because of the treatment . 
But this was inaccurate ; the study , which has not yet been peer reviewed , showed that 8.7 % of patients who were treated within three days of diagnosis died , compared to 11.9 % of patients who were treated four days or more after their diagnosis -- a difference of about 37 % . 
Those treated with plasma containing the highest levels of antibodies had a 35 % lower risk of dying within a week compared to those treated with less rich plasma . 
The study did not show the use of plasma reduced the overall death rate by 35 % . 
