Astra Zeneca ’s experimental coronavirus vaccine appears to work safely in older people , generating as strong an immune response in those over the age of 70 as it does in younger people , British researchers reported Thursday . 
The Phase 2 trial did not show whether the vaccine protected volunteers from infection , but it generated an immune response that would be expected to provide protection , the researchers reported in the Lancet medical journal . 
Astra Zeneca , which developed its vaccine with researchers at Britain ’s Oxford University , is testing its vaccine in Phase 3 clinical trials around the world -- the last stage before seeking regulatory approval . 
The results : The Phase 2 results published Thursday involved 560 volunteers aged 18 and up ; 240 of them over 70 . 
That ’s important , because older people are more likely to develop severe disease and to die from infection . 
How does the vaccine work ? 
Ch Ad Ox1 is the vaccine ’s experimental name . 
It ’s made differently from the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines . 
It uses a modified cold virus called an adenovirus , but it 's one that infects chimpanzees and does not make people sick . 
The virus is genetically engineered to carry a little piece of the coronavirus into the body and train the immune system to recognize and attack it . 
The vaccines prompted the body to produce both antibodies and immune cells called T cells . 
" The robust antibody and T cell responses seen in older people in our study are encouraging . 
The populations at greatest risk of serious Covid 19 disease include people with existing health conditions and older adults , " Dr . Maheshi Ramasamy of the University of Oxford , who worked on the study , said in a statement . 
Some context : The study comes after two Covid 19 vaccine candidates in the US reported 95 % efficacy . 
Pfizer says it expects to seek emergency use authorization from the US Food and Drug Administration for its vaccine on Friday , and Moderna says it also plans to seek authorization soon . 
