At least seven people have died in connection with a coronavirus outbreak that continues to afflict people in the US state of Maine following a wedding reception held over the summer that violated state virus guidelines , the Associated Press reports . 
The August wedding reception at the Big Moose Inn in Millinocket is linked to more than 175 confirmed cases of the virus , the Maine Center for Disease Control and Prevention said Tuesday . 
Maine authorities have identified overlaps between the wedding reception and outbreaks elsewhere in the state . 
An employee of the York County Jail attended the wedding , Maine CDC officials have said . 
The officials have also said a staff member from a Madison rehabilitation centre , which is the site of six of the seven deaths , attended the event . 
The virus cases stemming from the wedding have spanned hundreds of miles in a state that had largely controlled the spread of the coronavirus through the summer . 
Maine has reported less than 5,000 cases of the virus in total since March . 
But the growing number of cases linked to the wedding , which exceeded the state ’s guidelines of 50 people or less at indoor gatherings , could undo some of that progress if it continues to swell . 
Authorities have said more than 65 people attended the wedding . 
The six people from the Madison rehabilitation facility who died were all residents of that facility and none of them attended the wedding reception , said Nirav Shah , director of Maine CDC . 
Maine CDC is concerned about where we are , and I ’m asking everyone else to share in that concern . 
Covid 19 , right now , is not on the other side of the fence . 
It is in our yards . 
The gains that Maine has made against Covid 19 are ones that could , and unfortunately can , be washed away . 
The wedding was also officiated by pastor Todd Bell of Calvary Baptist Church in Sanford . 
The Maine CDC is currently investigating to determine if an outbreak at the church is connected to the wedding outbreak . 
That outbreak has caused 10 people to fall ill , Shah said . 
Calvary Baptist Church issued a statement on Tuesday that said a number of Calvary Baptist Church members attended the wedding reception . 
The statement said the church was taking precautions to limit the spread of the virus , and will defend its right to continue holding services . 
The Calvary Baptist Church has a legal right to meet . 
The authority of a local Christian church , a Jewish synagogue , or a Muslim mosque to gather for their respective religious services is a time - honoured part of our nation ’s history since its inception , the statement said . 
These religious activities are also fully protected under the First Amendment to our United States Constitution . 
Bell has been critical of government attempts to control coronavirus , and videos show he has held services without the use of social distancing . 
He hired a lawyer known nationally for defending the religious rights of churches . 
Neither Bell nor Gibbs personally responded to a request on Tuesday for comment . 
Maine CDC was unaware of the church ’s statement and could not comment on it , Shah said . 
Shah said the state ’s positivity rate has ticked up to 0.63 % for the previous seven days . 
At one point , the rate was less than half a percentage point . 
The rate remains well below the national average of about 5 % , Shah said . 
