Covid 19 patients may need to wait over a month before being retested to know whether they have cleared the virus , and one in five negative test results could be false , according to research published Tuesday in the British Medical Journal . 
Dr . Francesco Venturelli of the University of Modena and Reggio Emilia and colleagues studied 1,162 patients in the Reggio Emilia Province of Italy who tested positive for Covid 19 using a polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) test . 
Patients were retested around 15 days after their first test , 14 days after their second and nine days after their third . 
The researchers set these time intervals in accordance with European Centre for Disease Control and Prevention recommendations . 
About 60.6 % of the patients who recovered tested negative for Covid 19 by their first follow up test . 
Another test confirmed that negative result in just 78.7 % of these patients , which the team says suggests about one in five negative tests are false negatives . 
They say this could mean that many are still shedding the virus after testing negative and unknowingly passing it on to others . 
The researchers determined a patient had cleared the virus once they tested negative on two consecutive PCR tests . 
Overall , it took about 30 days from diagnosis and 36 days from the onset of symptoms for patients to clear the virus . 
It took slightly longer for older patients and those with more severe disease to clear the virus . 
The length of time increased from 35 days for those under 50 years old to 38 days for those over 80 . 
Non hospitalized patients took about 33 days , while hospitalized patients took about 38 days . 
By 34 days after patients first noticed symptoms , nearly 87 % of them tested negative . 
This suggests patients may need to wait a month or longer to determine whether they have truly cleared the virus , the researchers said . 
The team notes that understanding the timing of viral clearance is key to determining testing strategies and ensuring people do not have to spend unnecessary time in isolation . 
The say that postponing the follow up testing of those who are no longer experiencing illness or symptoms could increase the efficiency and performance of testing strategies . 
