European countries have welcomed Pfizer 's announcement that it believes its vaccine is more than 90 % effective with relief , as much of the region remains under lockdown . 
Here 's what 's happening in some countries : Germany German Health Minister Jens Spahn said Pfizer 's announcement , based on early data , was " very encouraging " and that he was " very pleased " that a German research and development team played a role . 
German company Bi On Tech has been Pfizer 's partner in the vaccine 's development . 
Germany has registered 15,332 new coronavirus cases since Monday , as well as 154 further coronavirus related deaths . 
The country 's total death toll now stands at 11,506 according to Germany ’s Robert Koch Institute ( RKI ) . 
France A French government spokesperson said Tuesday that it was too early to propose a " loosening of the rules " on coronavirus restrictions in France . 
The spokesperson added that while there is some evidence that restrictive measures imposed by the government " might be having an impact , " the country must remain " cautious . " 
The spokesperson ’s remarks come just a day after France ’s National Health Agency Director Jérôme Salomon said that the country ’s second wave of Covid 19 had yet to peak . 
Italy Five more local regions in Italy have been declared " orange zones , " meaning tighter restrictions will come into effect in the areas starting Wednesday and last for at least two weeks . 
The regions of Abruzzo , Umbria , Toscana , Liguria and Basilicata will see " non essential " shops close , and bars and restaurants will be limited to serving takeaway only . 
People will also be restricted from leaving their towns of residence . 
Portugal The government of Portugal imposed a two week state of emergency in 121 municipalities on Monday , mostly concentrated around the country 's two largest cities , Lisbon and Porto . 
In those municipalities , a mandatory curfew between 11p.m . and 5a.m . local time has been introduced , with an extension from 1p.m . – 5a.m . over the weekend . 
Mandatory body temperature checks will be carried out when accessing workplaces , schools , universities and public transport , as well as commercial , cultural and sports venues . 
It is now also compulsory to wear a face mask in all public areas , including outside if social distancing is impossible to maintain . 
