The US should have 100 million doses of one candidate Covid 19 vaccine by the end of the year , Dr . Anthony Fauci , the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ( NIAID ) and a member of the White House coronavirus task force , said Tuesday . 
Fauci said the first vaccine candidate , made by biotech company Moderna in partnership with NIAID , should go into a final stage of trials in volunteers , known in the industry as Phase III , by mid summer . 
Preparations at national and international sites are already under way , he said . 
" The real business end of this all will be the Phase III that starts in the first week of July , hopefully , " Fauci said . 
" We want to get as many data points as we can . " 
Phase III will involve about 30,000 people . 
The vaccine will be tested in people between the ages of 18 and 55 , as well as in the elderly and in people who have underlying health conditions . 
" It ’s going to be the entire spectrum , " Fauci said . 
Fauci said Phase II of the trial started a few days ago . 
A few hundred volunteers will be involved in that part of the trial . 
The plan is to manufacture doses of the vaccine even before it is clear whether the vaccines work , making close to 100 million doses by November or December , Fauci said . 
That ’s so if it does work , it can be deployed quickly . 
Scientists should have enough data by November or December to determine if the vaccine works , Fauci said . 
The Astra Zeneca trial underway in the UK will follow a similar schedule . 
A handful of other vaccine studies should start just one to two months after that , he said . 
" Which tells us , that if the body is capable of making an immune response to clear the virus of natural infection , that ’s a pretty good proof of concept , " Fauci said . 
" Having said that , there is never a guarantee . " 
Fauci said he is a little more concerned about what the durability of the response will be . 
People develop antibodies to fight common colds caused by other strains of coronavirus , but that protection generally only lasts about a year . 
That might mean people would need a fresh vaccine every year , as is the case with influenza . 
Watch more : 
