States need more medical and testing supplies . 
That was the message from governors around the country to President Trump on Thursday , as they met with members of the coronavirus task force . 
The President , who at times appeared frustrated , spoke with governors from the Federal Emergency Management Agency ’s headquarters in Washington , DC . 
Many of the governors , like Phil Murphy of New Jersey and Charlie Baker of Massachusetts , said their main worry is that there is not enough personal protection equipment available in their states — like masks , disposable gowns , and other supplies . 
Trump told Murphy that the states should be working to get whatever equipment they need on their own , but the federal government would help if it could . 
Addressing some of the concerns about access to necessary medical equipment , Vice President Mike Pence told governors to immediately " take inventory of your medical supply needs . " 
He said the federal government would work with any state " in the middle of critical response " to " get you what you need . " 
But he said other states should go through the normal routes to obtain medical equipment from the marketplace , even as hospital workers raise concerns about shortages . 
" Other states , you need to talk to your healthcare leaders , providers and make sure that they are going to the supply chain and we encourage you to pull them together today to emphasize that point , " Pence said . 
Days after the President insisted access to testing was not an issue , Illinois Gov . 
J.B . Pritzker pressed the task force over the amount of available coronavirus tests that would be provided to his state . 
Pritzker said that Illinois did not have enough equipment to properly conduct tests . 
He said those were being " monopolized " by the drive through sites the federal government was operating . 
Members of the administration said that was not true . 
Other state leaders said that even when they did get test kits , there were problems with how they were being distributed . 
Gov . 
Kristi Noem of South Dakota told the group that she spent weeks requesting testing supplies , only to have them go to a lab in her state that was not approved to operate by the Food and Drug Administration . 
" So they received what I was trying to get for two weeks when they ’re not even approved , not even up and running , " she told the President . 
She said she had even started asking other states for help . 
As she voiced her frustration and confusion over how it happened , the President cut her off . 
" Alright . 
We got it . 
Thanks Kris , " he said , as the governor continued to speak . 
Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar , who the President had snapped his fingers at as Noem spoke , jumped in to answer . 
He said the hospital " probably bought them on the open market . " 
" After this call we ’ll get on with you to make sure you ’re getting what you need , " Azar said . 
The governor tried to make further requests , but her connection cut out before she could finish . 
The President offered little feedback to the governors , choosing instead to leave much of the substance of the meeting to Pence , Azar and other members of the task force . 
