Wearing a face mask , Brazil ’s president Jair Bolsonaro posed for photographs with kids plucked out of a crowd of supporters on Sunday , disregarding public health advice aimed at containing one of the world ’s worst coronavirus outbreaks , Reuters reports . 
Bolsonaro ’s latest flouting of social distancing guidelines comes after he lost two health ministers in a month , both of whom resisted his fight against quarantines . 
Brazil ’s confirmed cases of the virus passed Spain and Italy on Saturday , making it the world ’s fourth largest outbreak . 
In an online video , Bolsonaro said he welcomed the demonstration at the presidential palace in what has become a nearly biweekly affair , with the president and supporters defying quarantines that have the support of most Brazilians . 
" Above all ( the people ) want freedom , they want democracy , they want respect , " he said , adding that Brazilians want to get the economy back up and running as quickly as possible . 
A poll this week showed two thirds of Brazilians agree with the need for social distancing to contain the outbreak , which governors and health experts recommend , while Bolsonaro tries to open gyms , hair salons and other businesses . 
On Friday , former health minister Nelson Teich resigned as he and the president showed themselves increasingly out of step , with Bolsonaro calling for a rollback of state quarantines and widespread use of unproven drugs , such as chloroquine to fight the virus . 
" Chlo ro quine ! 
Chlo ro quine ! " chanted Bolsonaro ’s supporters outside the presidential palace in Sunday , as well as " We want to work ! " 
Nationwide testing in Brazil still lags far behind European nations . 
Brazil had processed nearly 338,000 novel coronavirus tests in official labs by the beginning of the week , according to the Health Ministry . 
Another 145,000 tests were under analysis or waiting in line . 
By contrast , Italy and Spain have each run some 1.9 million official diagnostic tests for the virus . 
