Ros Davies is usually busiest at Christmas , building magnificent sets and stages for London 's most sparkling parties and events . 
This year , the fairytale is canceled . 
Davies , a self employed carpenter has not worked since March because of the pandemic and has no idea when she may do so again . 
She 's living in temporary accommodation found for her in the city by St . Mungo 's , a homelessness charity , while a plan to get her into permanent housing is on hold . 
" I was hoping to move on and sort my life properly but ... here we are , " the 50 year old told CNN Business . 
" I would not have believed if you had said a year ago that your job 's going to stop in March and that 's it , you might never work doing that again . " 
Davies did some retraining in painting and decorating , but with England just coming out of a second lockdown it has not led to any work . 
She has gone from regular jobs that paid enough for her to take vacations , to complete reliance on UK social security payments of just over £ 400 ( $ 530 ) a month . 
Workers falling through the cracks : Coronavirus has revealed gaping holes in European social safety nets that are often seen as the gold standard . 
While many countries introduced support programs for workers affected by the pandemic , people are falling through the cracks . 
Most often , those who were already suffering the effects of inequality are hit the hardest — lower income workers , those in insecure jobs , young people , women and minority ethnic groups . 
He said that during the 2008 financial crisis , pre existing programs involving governments and businesses helped many European countries avoid too many layoffs . 
Unemployment was up by 2.18 million year on year in the European Union in October 2020 , rising from a rate of 6.6 % to 7.6 % . 
The UK unemployment rate was an estimated 4.8 % in the three months to September , up 0.9 percentage points year on year , and 782,000 jobs were lost between March and October , according to the Office for National Statistics . 
Read the full story : 
