Four Italian regions will become coronavirus " red zones " on Friday , Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte announced on Wednesday . 
The regions of Calabria , Lombardy , Piedmont and Valle d 'Aosta will be placed under the country 's harshest restrictive measures in its new " traffic light " system to tackle the spread of coronavirus . 
The region of Puglia and the island of Sicily will become " orange zones , " while the rest of the country becomes " yellow zones " ( the lowest risk zone ) . 
" Yellow zones " are subject to new national measures that include a stay at home order from 10pm to 5am local time . 
In these zones , public transport can only operate at 50 % capacity , museums and exhibition centers must close , and masks must be used in school by all students over the age of six . 
Restaurants and bars can remain open until 6pm , after which they can only provide take away or delivery services . 
In " orange zones " people will also be banned from leaving their town and their region -- except for work or health reasons -- and bars and restaurants will only be able to do delivery and take away service . 
In the " red zones , " Conte said people are not allowed to leave their houses except for work or health reasons . 
All the above national and orange rules apply , in addition to all non essential shops being closed . 
The new rules will go into effect on November 6 and will last until December 3 . 
" It ’s not a discretionary decision , " Conte said referring to the color assigned to the regions . 
The three different levels of risk across the country are based on the virus transmission rate , the number of available intensive care beds and the testing capacity . 
They will be assessed every 14 days . 
There could be some exceptions inside the " red zones " for specific areas that are less affected by the pandemic . 
" To freeze the surge of the contagion , " Conte said , " we have no alternatives ; we must face these restrictions . " 
" We understand the discomfort , the frustration , the psychological suffering , but we have to resist , " he added . 
