Peru is extending its lockdown for another two weeks after 54 days of quarantine , Peru ’s president Martín Vizcarra announced in a press briefing . 
" We are in an extreme situation . 
We all have to work together , " he said on Friday , stressing that the country had been unable to sufficiently cut the rising rate of infections amid several outbreaks in different parts of the country . 
Covid 19 hotspots have flared up on the country ’s northern coast , where social distancing rules have been routinely flouted , and in the isolated Amazon city of Iquitos which suffered from a critical lack of medical supplies , particularly oxygen . 
Despite one of the most stringent lockdowns in Latin America , Peru recorded more than 58,000 confirmed Covid 19 cases and 1,627 deaths by Friday . 
Even in the capital Lima , medical attention was on the verge of collapse despite the best efforts of hospital workers who lacked PPE . 
However , Vizcarra announced an increase in the number of intensive care beds to 937 . 
The popular leader pointed out that banks , bus stops , and , most of all , food markets had been the principal points of contagion . 
He ordered the closure of 36 " critical " markets where spot tests revealed an infection rate of up to 40 % among stallholders , and clampdowns in a total of 380 across the country . 
With Mother ’s Day looming on Sunday , Vizcarra issued a stark warning to his family minded compatriots , as he paid tribute to all the Peruvian mothers working through the pandemic . 
" The greatest desire is to go to your mother and give her a big hug (…) but we cannot do that , because we are responsible , " he said . 
" The best way of protecting your mother is to keep her far away . 
It ’s hard but we will beat this [ virus ] . " 
Amid the growing toll on mental health after close to two months of quarantine , Vizcarra said that children under the age of 14 would be allowed to venture out with an adult up to 500m from their homes from Monday 18 May . 
