In a letter , public health advisers to the US government said they are " extremely concerned " and " troubled " by the Trump administration 's decision to change how hospitals report Covid 19 data . 
The letter , dated July 31 , described hospitals as " scrambling " to determine how to meet new daily Covid 19 reporting requirements to the US Department of Health and Human Services , and said retiring the older system jeopardized data integrity . 
One doctor who signed the letter said the new data system was marred by inconsistencies , rendering it " almost impossible " to use for real time decisions during the pandemic . 
The nearly three dozen current and former members of the Healthcare Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee shared their concerns in a letter intended for HHS and obtained by CNN . 
The committee is an independent group of experts that provides guidance to the HHS and the US Centers of Disease Control and Prevention on infection control practices and strategies . 
When asked by CNN , HHS did not confirm if it had received the letter . 
Members of the committee said that the CDC , which is part of HHS , was informed of the letter . 
Some background : In a memo on the HHS website last month , the Trump administration ordered hospitals to report all Covid 19 patient information to HHS , rather than to the CDC and HHS , as they had been doing . 
The Trump administration said the change would streamline the data collection process , but it swiftly drew criticism from public health officials . 
Former CDC Acting Director Dr . Richard Besser said at the time that rerouting hospital data was a " step backwards " for the country 's coronavirus response . 
" It 's another example of CDC being sidelined . 
Not only should the data be coming to CDC , but CDC should be talking to the public through the media every day , " Besser told CNN . 
This recent letter shared similar concerns . 
" We are extremely concerned about this abrupt change in Covid 19 reporting , " the letter said . 
Retiring the CDC system that was in operation would have " serious consequences on data integrity . " 
Read more here . 
