A new book published this week by China 's Central Propaganda Department recounts how Beijing won the " people 's war " against the novel coronavirus . 
With editions in more than six languages , it 's clearly aimed at a global audience . 
But while the claim that China has won the battle against the virus is debatable , even on the face of it , the lessons from China 's own experiences are not particularly applicable to other countries . 
More than 780 million people across China were placed on effective lockdown at the height of the outbreak , while the government 's giant security state swung into action , with intense , artificial intelligence powered surveillance used to track potential virus carriers across the country . 
Beyond this , China also mobilized thousands of health care workers to tackle the outbreak in Wuhan , and constructed several hospitals dedicated to fighting the virus in a matter of days . 
Not only do many countries lack the resources or technology to follow suit , they do not have the legal framework for doing so . 
This is for good reasons -- privacy protections , human rights safeguards -- but also means that other governments do not have the capabilities to rein in the virus that , if you take Beijing 's propagandists at their word , were vital for the victory in China . 
Even less draconian solutions , such as additional border checks , restrictions on travel , and calls for self isolation or voluntary quarantine may be more difficult to pull off outside of China . 
The Chinese authorities have complete control of the country 's media and a massive censorship apparatus , allowing them to set the narrative and encourage compliance and a sense of the country pulling together . 
They also do not have to deal with opposition politicians criticizing their policies or seeking to score points . 
Already in the US , the virus is becoming politicized , with both President Donald Trump and Fox News blaming Democrats and the media for overhyping dangers in a supposed desire to hurt his popularity . 
China 's response to the virus may have been successful , but like many things that happen in a country that unique , it will be difficult to copy overseas , for both good reasons and bad . 
