With the novel coronavirus spreading worldwide , we 're about to see what happens when multiple different political systems try to respond at once , in very different ways . 
Some countries are already battening down the hatches , while others are taking a more blasé approach . 
What 's clear is that there is not a unified strategy . 
Even in the European Union , health policy is left to member states , so there will be some major discrepancies in how countries react to outbreaks . 
This could have an impact because it makes it difficult for people to know how to react or what precautions to take . 
If country A has 40 cases and is announcing school closures and quarantines , but country B with 60 cases is only advising extra vigilance , is it because the situation is less serious , or is the government not responding correctly ? 
There are legitimate reasons that more cases could be less serious , a cluster could all have connections to another country , with no evidence of spreading within the community , so once they are hospitalized and isolated , there 's less risk of further contagion . 
Conversely , a relatively small outbreak that is showing signs of inter community transmission is far more concerning . 
The World Health Organization ( WHO ) can be expected to carry out some coordination and provide advice on how governments should react , but the WHO does not have the power to compel countries to take certain measures , nor would it likely be willing to publicly shame any that are being negligent . 
The WHO 's authority has also been somewhat knocked by accusations that it pandered to China , praising Beijing 's containment efforts even as the virus spread throughout first that country and then the world . 
It 's always difficult to know how seriously to take an outbreak , how to find the balance between being safe , and avoiding paranoia . 
As dozens of different approaches to the virus kick into gear worldwide , that might be about to become a lot harder . 
