President Donald Trump had just concluded a hurricane briefing with local officials in Lake Charles , Louisiana , in August when Republican Sen . 
John Kennedy approached the President with a request for autographs from local law enforcement officials . 
As the local sheriff approached Trump , the President 's longtime body man Johnny Mc Entee stepped in and put his hand out : " We gotta just keep a little -- " " If you will , just try to keep your distance , " White House chief of staff Mark Meadows interjected as the President 's lead Secret Service agent moved to place himself between the President and the local officials . 
Neither Trump , Meadows , Mc Entee , nor Trump 's Secret Service agent were wearing masks . 
As they worked to create a bubble around the President , Trump 's aides were simultaneously piercing it themselves , coming within inches of potentially contagious local officials before piling into a helicopter and airplane with Trump . 
The late summer episode hardly registered at the time . 
But two months later , as the virus ravages White House staff and Trump remains isolated with the disease himself , it seems illustrative of woefully inadequate efforts to keep both Trump and those surrounding him healthy . 
Trump has sought to cast his coronavirus diagnosis as the inevitable outcome of courageous leadership in the face of the pandemic . 
" I knew there 's danger to it , but I had to do it . 
I stood out front . 
I led , " Trump said in a video message he recorded after he returned to the White House on Monday night . 
On Wednesday , he called his diagnosis a " blessing from God " because it opened his eyes to potential treatments . 
In reality , the President 's infection was the predictable result after months of blatantly disregarding basic public health guidance . 
While aides took steps to keep Trump from catching coronavirus , the White House 's ultimate failure and the ensuing West Wing outbreak can be tied to an over reliance on rapid coronavirus testing and disregard for the most basic and effective public health measures that have become second nature to most Americans : wearing a mask and social distancing . 
Read the full story : 
