University of Notre Dame President Rev . 
John I . Jenkins is facing a student petition pushing for him to resign and a possible " no confidence " by the faculty following his Covid 19 diagnosis . 
Students are outraged at Jenkins after he was seen attending the nomination ceremony for Amy Coney Barrett at the White House Rose Garden on Sept . 26 without wearing a mask and not adhering to social distancing practices . 
More than 200 students have signed a petition calling for Jenkins to resign , saying , " Fr . Jenkins ’ public displays of disregard for public health directly contradict his commitment to the Notre Dame community , directly endanger the safety of students , faculty and staff , and also cast a negative light on the Notre Dame community as a whole . " 
Two days before Jenkins ' diagnosis , an editorial titled " Frankly , this is embarrassing " was published in Notre Dame 's student run newspaper lashing out at Jenkins for breaking the rules he expects Notre Dame students to uphold . 
Some background : After Jenkins announced he had tested positive for Covid 19 on October 2 , he wrote a public apology to the university community . 
" I regret my error of judgment in not wearing a mask during the ceremony and by shaking hands with a number of people in the Rose Garden , " Jenkins wrote . 
" I failed to lead by example , at a time when I ’ve asked everyone else in the Notre Dame community to do so . " 
On Tuesday night , Notre Dame 's Faculty Senate debated a " no confidence " resolution of Jenkins , according to the Chronicle of Higher Education and the New York Times . 
The motion was narrowly voted 21-20 deciding to postpone further action on the resolution . 
But the apology is not enough for students , who noted that this is the second time Jenkins has had to apologize to the student body since the fall semester began . 
In early August , Jenkin issued an apology after he was seen engaging with students on campus and not following social distancing protocol . 
