President Donald Trump wore a mask and talked up the possibility of a coronavirus vaccine by the end of the year as he looked to show voters in the battleground state of North Carolina that he is responding to the pandemic . 
Trump , whose approval ratings have dropped as many Americans believe he has handled the virus badly , sought for the second week to look in command after setting aside his hands off approach . 
He said : I trust all Americans to do the right thing but we strongly advise everyone to especially , especially focus on maintaining a social distance , maintain a rigorous hygiene , avoid crowded gatherings and indoor bars and wear masks when appropriate . 
The Republican president spoke during a visit to a Fujifilm plant in Morrisville , North Carolina , where work on a vaccine is being carried out . 
During a tour of the facility , he wore a mask publicly for a second time , the first being on a trip to Walter Reed Medical Center near Washington earlier this month . 
" I heard very positive things , but by the end of the year , we think we ’re in very good shape to be doing that , " Trump said of a potential vaccine . 
He expressed confidence in the economic recovery and said : " A lot of governors should be opening up states that they ’re not opening . " 
Infection rates have climbed since June in the United States , which is world leader in total numbers of deaths and cases . 
National security adviser Robert O ’Brien became the most senior official in Trump ’s inner circle to test positive for the coronavirus , the White House said on Monday . 
Trump , who is seeking re election on 3 November , has his work cut out for him in North Carolina , a state he won narrowly in 2016 and where he had originally hoped to accept his nomination for a second term . 
A new NBC News/Marist poll said Democrat Joe Biden led Trump by 7 points in North Carolina . 
It said respondents by a 2 to 1 margin favored Democratic governor Roy Cooper ’s opposition to a large Republican nominating convention event in Charlotte , North Carolina , in late August . 
Cooper ’s opposition prompted Trump to try to arrange a big event in Jacksonville , Florida , but that plan fell apart last week and now it is unclear where Trump will give his acceptance speech . 
Republican delegates are still to meet in Charlotte in late August to conduct some convention business . 
