The American Health Care Association and National Center for Assisted Living ( AHCA/NCAL ) published a report Tuesday showing that confirmed Covid 19 cases in US nursing homes are rising rapidly again after a steady decline in June , due to a jump in cases in the general population . 
The report 's findings : The report used data from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services ( CMS ) , which in conjunction with the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention compiles weekly statistics from nursing homes . 
Those numbers show that Covid 19 cases in nursing homes rose to 8,628 for the week of July 19 , from a low of 5,468 for the week of June 21 , just a month earlier . 
( July 19 is the last week for which complete information is available . ) 
The report shows deaths are also trending up but , as of the week of July 19 , not at the same rate . 
Reasons for the spike : The AHCA/NCAL report attributed community spread to the rapid uptick in cases , pointing to the soaring number of infections among the general population in many states in late June and July . 
Lack of rapid testing and an inadequate supply of personal protective equipment ( PPE ) is compounding the problem . 
" As the CMS data shows , the increase in new cases in nursing homes is being driven by the spike in cases in the surrounding communities and exacerbated by shortages in PPE and the significant delay [ up to five days or longer ] in obtaining test results for nursing home staff and residents , " Parkinson said . 
Call to action : The organization , which represents more than 14,000 nursing homes and assisted living communities that care for approximately 5 million people , is asking federal and state public health officials to take immediate steps to protect those communities – especially in areas with significant rise in new Covid cases . 
" Without adequate funding and resources , the U.S . will end up repeating the same mistakes from several months ago . We need public health officials to focus on reducing spread within the larger community and prioritizing long term care for resources , like PPE , testing , staff support and funding , so we can prevent the virus from coming in to nursing homes and help staff take targeted action if it does . 
With the proper resources , long term care facilities can better identify who has the virus and make tactical decisions to protect residents and staff , " Parkinson said . 
He also urged Congress for an additional $ 100 billion for the US Department of Health and Human Services ( HHS ) Provider Relief Fund , and that a sizeable portion of the fund be dedicated to helping nursing homes and assisted living communities acquire resources associated with protecting vulnerable residents and staff from the virus , including constant testing , PPE and staff support . 
" While we are making progress , we need Congress to prioritize our vulnerable seniors and their caregivers in nursing homes and assisted living communities in this upcoming legislation , " Parkinson said . 
