Top UN officials have warned that the Covid 19 pandemic has aggravated discrimination and other human rights violations that can fuel conflict , and its indirect consequences are dwarfing the impact of the virus itself in the world ’s most fragile countries . 
UN political chief Rosemary Di Carlo and UN humanitarian chief Mark Lowcock painted a grim picture to the UN Security Council of the global impact of the pandemic , with over 26 million confirmed cases of Covid 19 and more than 860,000 deaths . 
Lowcock warned the council that the indirect economic and health effects from the crisis in fragile countries will be higher poverty , lower life expectancy , more starvation , less education and more child death . 
He said roughly a third of covid cases and fatalities are in countries affected by humanitarian or refugee crises , or those facing high levels of vulnerability . 
But the full extent is not known because testing in these fragile countries is very low and in some places many people are reluctant to seek help , perhaps fearing being quarantined or fearing they wo not get useful medical treatment , he said . 
The better news is that it seems possible that the fatality rate from Covid 19 may be lower in these fragile countries than initially feared , he said , but the indirect impact is greater . 
Di Carlo said secretary general Antonio Guterres ’ 23 March call for a global cease fire to deliver life saving aid during the pandemic had an encouraging initial response , with temporary truces announced from Colombia and Ukraine to the Philippines and Cameroon . 
However , many expired without extensions , resulting in little improvement on the ground , the undersecretary general for political and peace building affairs said . 
She said another potential driver of instability is peoples perception that authorities have not addressed the pandemic effectively or have not been transparent about its impact , adding that reports of corruption related to Covid 19 responses are accentuating this trend . 
As for growing human rights challenges during the pandemic , Di Carlo pointed to increased discrimination including in access to health services , surging violence against women particularly in the home during lockdowns , and growing limitations being placed on the media , civic space and freedom of expression . 
Social media platforms are used to spread disinformation about the pandemic , Di Carlo said . 
And there has been a rise in stigma and hate speech , especially against migrants and foreigners . 
