The federal government is working on delays in coronavirus testing , but the country needs to lean more on prevention , Surgeon General Dr . Jerome Adams says . 
" It 's important to know that a test result that comes back seven , 10 , 14 days later , does not allow us to isolate and contact trace , which is something that we feel is important to contain the virus , so we 're very cognizant of concerns about delays , " Adams said Sunday on INFocus , a Fox news magazine show focused on Indiana . 
" As a public health physician , I want people to know that we feel tests are important , but we ca not test our way out of this problem , " Adams added . 
" We need to lean on prevention , and that 's making sure everyone 's wearing a mask , washing their hands , and watching their distance from others . " 
Adams said that about 50 % of the testing done in the US is either point of care " which is 15 minutes or less " to get results , or in hospitals " which is 24 hours or less . " 
" So this is a problem — it ’s a problem for some labs and some people in particular . 
It 's a problem we 're working on , but we 're continuing to drive down those cases . " 
When asked about Dr . Anthony Fauci ’s comments that " we are not doing great " compared to other countries , Adams said , " I think that two things can be true at once : it can be true there are a lot of people out there doing the right thing and also true that we need to do better . " 
Adams noted that the US has not seen the more than 1 million deaths that some health experts were predicting . 
" But that does not mean we ca not and should not do more . 
We must stay vigilant , " he said . 
According to Johns Hopkins University , more than 170,000 Americans have died of coronavirus , although the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said 90 % of cases have likely been missed . 
Adams blamed the spike in numbers on spring and summer fever , which has people wanting to " hang out " with friends and family . 
" What I would say to folks is , we can get through this … and get to a place where we can safely reopen . 
But if people just ignore those basic public health measures , we ’re going to continue to see spread increasing and we 're actually going to lose choices and lose freedom , because we 're going to be forced to shut down , " he said . 
Adams said Indianapolis " has been on our radar screen " because more than 10 % of people tested for coronavirus in Marion county have had positive test results — in the red zone . 
The same goes for Fort Wayne ’s Allen county . 
" We want the people of the state to know we are concerned but also want them to know we have the tools to turn this around , " he said . 
Before becoming surgeon general , Adams was Indiana ’s state health commissioner . 
