It remains unclear exactly how many people in the United States have had Covid 19 , but a new study suggests that most do not appear to have antibodies and are likely susceptible to infection . 
Across the country , the prevalence of Covid 19 antibodies appears to range from fewer than 1 % to 23 % , according to the study published in the Journal of the American Medical Association ’s JAMA Internal Medicine on Tuesday . 
When someone recovers from Covid 19 , their blood plasma can contain antibodies that helped fight the coronavirus that caused their illness -- and therefore antibodies serve as clues to a past infection . 
The new study included data from blood serum samples taken from 178,000 people across all 50 states , the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico . 
Samples were obtained for routine screening or clinical care during four collection periods : July 27 to Aug . 13 ; Aug . 10 to Aug . 27 ; Aug . 24 to Sept . 10 ; and Sept . 7 to Sept . 24 . 
The researchers -- from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , Quest Diagnostics , Bio Reference Laborites and the company ICF Inc . -- found that the prevalence of antibodies among those samples ranged from 0 % in South Dakota in collection period 2 to 23.3 % in New York in collection period 1 . 
Regional differences : For certain states -- such as Iowa , Pennsylvania and Tennessee -- more people living in metropolitan counties had antibodies . 
In other states -- such as Alabama and Mississippi -- people living outside metropolitan areas were more likely to have been infected , according to the study . 
Changes over time , from collection period 1 to 4 , also varied across states . 
The researchers found that the largest drop in prevalence occurred in New York and North Dakota , while large increases occurred in Georgia and Minnesota . 
The study was not designed to produce a nationwide estimate of prevalence . 
More research is needed to determine whether similar findings would emerge among a larger group of people representative of the general public . 
