Two hospital systems gave Thanksgiving updates on their coronavirus caseloads , both saying that cases are rising in their hospitals but expressing confidence in their ability to deal with the increasing case load . 
One hospital system said , the situation now is " nothing approaching what we experienced in March , " and another system echoing that saying they are " well within our ability to handle . " 
Mt . Sinai healthcare system ’s Chief Medical Officer , Dr . Vicki Lo Pachin , said in a note Wednesday , that coronavirus cases continue to rise across the Mt . Sinai health system but that the current number of cases " is still within our projections , and well within our ability to handle . " 
Dr . Craig Smith , chair of the department of surgery at Columbia University Irving Medical Center , which is also affiliated with New York Presbyterian ’s hospital system , said in a message Thursday that the new Covid 19 case curve is " unequivocally positive " but nothing approaching " what we experienced in March . " 
Smith ’s candid updates during the heat of the coronavirus crisis in New York gained a large following in the spring . 
Smith said NYP and CU have a " meticulous plan " for staffing changes if the surge in cases increases quickly , and that at this time , the systems are not close to a level where non urgent surgeries would need to be canceled in order to deal with an influx of cases . 
Smith also said the institutions are in the process of planning " thorough plans " for vaccine distribution . 
On Wednesday morning , the system had 157 Covid 19 positive patients admitted to their hospitals , 25 of whom were in critical care . 
Lo Pachin warned Mt . Sinai healthcare workers to " relax , recharge and prepare for the work ahead " as coronavirus case numbers are expected to increase , as some ignore warnings against gathering for the Thanksgiving holiday . 
" We know that many people will ignore the warnings and gather unsafely with their families tomorrow , and that the patients with new COVID 19 infections resulting from those gatherings will arrive in our hospitals in the next few weeks , " Lo Pachin said . 
" Your family needs you , your colleagues need you , and your patients need you , now more than ever . " 
