Four Italian regions will go into partial lockdown from Friday as the government scrambles to regain control of the coronavirus pandemic . 
Giuseppe Conte ’s government is trying to avoid a full national shutdown and has instead introduced a three tier system that divides the country ’s 20 regions up according to level of risk . 
The northern regions of Lombardy , Piedmont and Aosta Valley , along with Calabria in the south , have been placed in the " red zone " , meaning people will only be able to leave their homes for work , health or emergency reasons and bars , restaurants and non essential shops – apart from hairdressers – will close . 
People will be banned from travelling in or out of their regions . 
In Puglia and Sicilia , which have been placed in the orange zone , bars and restaurants will be closed and people will be able to move freely within their towns and cities but not leave them . 
The rest of the country will be in the yellow zone , meaning there will be no new restrictions apart from those already imposed nationally , such as the 6pm closure of bars and restaurants and complete closure of cinemas , theatres and gyms . 
All regions will be under a 10pm 5am curfew . 
Unlike in the spring , factories will stay open across the country . 
Restrictions per region have been determined by the rate of Covid 19 transmission , the number of infections and people with symptoms and the availability of hospital beds . 
The measures will be in place until 3 December . 
" The virus here , and in the whole of Europe , is racing strongly , and violently , " Conte said . 
Cases last week doubled compared to the previous one , the rate of transmission has increased to 1.7 nationally , and in some regions it ’s higher . 
There are no alternatives , to slow the curve we need these restrictions … I understand the inconvenience and frustration , but we have to hold tight . 
Conte said intensive care capacity would be at risk in 15 of Italy ’s 20 regions within a few weeks unless new measures were enacted . 
Italy registered 30,550 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday and 352 fatalities . 
The number of people hospitalised across the country stood at 22,116 Wednesday , of whom 2,292 were in intensive care – more than double the number on 24 October . 
Doctors had called for more aggressive restrictions as hospitals become overwhelmed and staff fall sick – 14,000 health workers were infected with coronavirus between September and October , and 184 medics have died since the start of the pandemic . 
The worst affected regions in terms of daily caseload are Lombardy , which on Wednesday registered 7,758 cases , Campania , which for now is in the yellow zone , and Piedmont . 
