The White House released eight new recommendations for schools as they prepare to reopen , however the recommendations are little more than basic hygiene tips and do not outline what schools should do if they face coronavirus cases in their halls . 
The broad recommendations are similar to coronavirus mitigation efforts across the country , and not particularly specific to schools . 
The " general recommendations for all schools , " which were released at the President ’s daily coronavirus news conference , focus on what students and teachers should do to attempt to keep people safe as they return to the classroom . 
The recommendations include ensuring that students and staff " understand the symptoms of COVID 19 " and requiring " all students , teachers and staff to self assess their health every morning before coming to school . " 
The recommendations also encourage the use of masks , but do not require students , teachers or staff to wear masks . 
They also " require students , teachers and staff to socially distance around high risk individuals , " however it ’s unclear how schools will go about doing that . 
Trump did say " we ’re also providing high risk teachers and students options to engage in distance teaching and learning . " 
The President said one of the reasons he wants students to return to school is because there are very few fatalities in younger Americans . 
" College age students also continue to be one of the lowest risk demographics , " Trump claimed , adding that most Covid 19 deaths " occur in people over 24 years of age , " Trump claimed . 
This new list released by the White House echoes much of what the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention included in their guidelines for reopening schools , which do contain additional details . 
Trump also said CDC teams can be deployed to schools that need assistance with their reopening plans . 
Earlier on Wednesday , adviser to the President Kellyanne Conway said that despite the resources the federal government will provide , the decision to reopen schools will still need to be made at a local level . 
" We ’re the federal government . 
We ’re not telling school districts what to do . 
We ’re providing guidance and resources , " Conway said . 
