If you ’re just joining us , here ’s the latest on the global Covid 19 pandemic . 
More than 500,000 people have died from the coronavirus , and more than 10.1 million cases have now been recorded worldwide , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
US " window is closing " : A large proportion of these cases are in the United States , where Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar warned Sunday that the " window is closing " for the country to get the pandemic under control , as confirmed cases are surging in a majority of the country and some states are dealing with record numbers of hospitalizations . 
Only two US states are reporting a decline in new coronavirus cases compared to last week : Connecticut and Rhode Island . 
A rise was reported in a staggering 36 states , including Florida , which some experts have cautioned could be the next epicenter for infections . 
Officials there and across the US are also warning of an increase in cases among younger people . 
China locks down province of 400,000 after just 18 new cases : China is not taking any chances of a second wave gripping the country -- despite having largely contained its outbreak in recent months . 
In stark contrast to the relaxing of restrictions amid spiking infection rates in the US and parts of Europe , about 400,000 people have been placed under strict lockdown in Anxin county , in the central province of Hebei , near Beijing , after just 18 fresh cases were detected . 
India sees more than 100,000 new infections in six days : India has recorded its biggest one day jump in new coronavirus cases for the eighth consecutive day , after 19,459 new cases were reported on Monday , according to the country 's health ministry . 
India has now seen more than 100,000 new Covid 19 infections in the past six days alone . 
Three of the country 's states -- West Bengal , Jharkhand and Assam -- are extending lockdown measures past June 30 , the date that the country 's final stage of nationwide lockdown is set to lift . 
Australian " testing blitz " returns " concerning " results : The fourth day of a coronavirus " testing blitz " in the Australian state of Victoria returned 75 positive results on Sunday , Victorian Health Minister Jenny Mikakos announced Monday . 
Sunday ’s count was the 14th consecutive day of double digit increases in new coronavirus cases in Victoria -- and the largest single daily increase reported by the state since March 30 . 
" I think it ’s a concerning number , " said Victorian Chief Health Officer Brett Sutton , adding : " I think it will get worse before it gets better . " 
Latin America sees surge in cases as some countries re open : Brazil reported 30,476 new coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours , as some areas continue the reopening process , bringing the country 's total number of cases to 1,344,143 . 
The death toll stands at 57,622 , while the country continues reopening measures in certain areas -- Rio de Janeiro city issued a decree Friday allowing the public to attend stadiums to watch soccer matches of the local Carioca Championship . 
Meanwhile in Mexico , 4,050 new coronavirus cases were reported Sunday , according to the Mexican Health Ministry . 
The new numbers come as Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador announced the country 's capital , Mexico City , is set to begin a gradual reopening process Monday . 
Mexico has the 7th highest number of Covid 19 deaths worldwide , with a total death toll of 26,648 . 
