The UK is set to receive its first batch of the Pfizer Bio NTech Covid 19 vaccine in the coming hours , England 's deputy chief medical officer said Thursday . 
" We expect to receive [ the Pfizer vaccine ] very shortly in the UK , and I do mean hours , not days , " Jonathan Van Tam told the BBC ’s Five Live radio show . 
On Wednesday , the UK Department of Health said up to 800,000 doses of the vaccine -- enough to inoculate 400,000 people -- are being made available next week . 
Van Tam also said he believes US and European regulators will approve the Pfizer Covid 19 vaccine in the coming " days or weeks , " during a separate interview with BBC Breakfast . 
His comments come after Dr . Anthony Fauci , the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , claimed British health regulators who authorized Pfizer ’s Covid 19 vaccine on Wednesday did not scrutinize the trial data as carefully as the US Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) is doing in its review . 
" The way the FDA is , our FDA is doing it , is the correct way , " Fauci said in an interview on Fox News . 
" We really scrutinize the data very carefully to guarantee to the American public that this is a safe and efficacious vaccine , " he said . 
Van Tam explained the UK ’s vaccination program will prioritize older people in care homes and its workers , and then " everybody aged 80 and over " and " those with risk conditions . " 
" There are more vaccines coming , we 've invested in seven others and they should start coming in by spring , " Van Tam added . 
The lead epidemiologist also told the BBC that pregnant women should not get vaccinated at this point : " We do not have the data at this point . 
There may be no problem at all , but safety first . " 
As for children , Van Tam added that they are not a priority at the moment , but that manufacturers are " now thinking of doing trials in children . " 
The deputy chief medical officer also urged those in the priority groups to accept the call for vaccination , saying the success of the immunization program and subsequent lifting of restrictions depends on the public 's adherence to the plan . 
As for the duration of the immunity provided by the Pfizer vaccine , Van Tam said there are still no certainties for " how long it is going to last . " 
" We have some data that these vaccines are going to stimulate T cell and antibodies which could be long lasting . 
But we do not know how long it will last . 
I 'm confident it will be quite a few months as an absolute minimum , " he added . 
Van Tam said there are still some " challenges in terms of storage conditions " regarding the Pfizer vaccine , which must be stored at minus 70 degrees , but there 's also a limited number of times the vaccine can " transit through ambient air temperature . " 
He added he is hopeful that the Astra Zeneca Oxford vaccine , which " should be a whole lot easier and more deployable in multiple NHS [ National Health Service ] settings , " could be " as easy as the flu vaccine " to handle . 
Van Tam also added he is " hopeful " the Astra Zeneca Oxford vaccine might be ready by Christmas . 
