The UK became the first Western country to authorize a Covid 19 vaccine yesterday , marking a pivotal moment in the global fight against coronavirus . 
As coronavirus cases rise across the US and the world , here 's a look at the latest on the race to approve and distribute a vaccine Vaccines are on their way to the UK : The UK is set to receive its first batch of the Pfizer Bio NTech Covid 19 vaccine today , just one day after the vaccine was approved , England 's deputy chief medical officer said . 
Yesterday , On Wednesday , the UK Department of Health said up to 800,000 doses of the vaccine — enough to inoculate 400,000 people — would be made available next week . 
European health experts are reviewing possible vaccines : The European Medicines Agency ( EMA ) began its review process of the Pfizer data in October and Bio NTech and Pfizer submitted an application to complete the review process on Tuesday . 
The EMA has said it will conclude its review by Dec . 29 at the latest . 
EU member states cannot distribute a Covid 19 vaccine until it has been authorized by the EMA and signed off by the European Commission , according to EMA rules . 
US health advisers meet next week to discuss candidates : The FDA 's Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee , a panel of independent experts , will meet on Dec . 10 to review Pfizer 's coronavirus vaccine candidate and make a recommendation about whether to authorize the vaccine . 
A similar FDA committee meeting for Moderna 's vaccine candidate is set for Dec . 17 . 
FDA officials say their decisions on the vaccines could come days to weeks after the meetings — it depends on what questions come up . 
Russia is starting large scale vaccination efforts : Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday ordered his government to start large scale vaccinations against Covid 19 from next week . 
Russia became the first country in the world to approve its coronavirus vaccine , Sputnik V , in August , authorizing the treatment for public use even before crucial Phase 3 trials were conducted . 
The move drew criticism from scientific circles . 
Dr . Sanjay Gupta talks with Moderna Covid 19 vaccine trial participant : 
