Months into the pandemic and ahead of what experts say could be a difficult winter season , the US remains behind when it comes to Covid 19 testing , Dr . Anthony Fauci says . 
" We 're better off now than we were a couple of months ago , that 's for sure , " Fauci told CNN 's Chris Cuomo Monday night . 
But the country is still not where it needs to be , he said . 
Testing is crucial -- but the US is behind : In the battle against the virus , experts have continually stressed how testing is critical . 
When done right , it can help health officials identify infections quickly and place those individuals in isolation before more people become infected . 
It can also give local leaders an idea of the level of infection within a community . 
" We need to flood the system with testing , " Fauci said . 
The US has conducted more than 107 million tests since the pandemic began . 
More than 210,000 Americans have died and there have been more than 7.4 million recorded infections -- but the number of true infections is likely far greater than that , the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has said . 
And that 's likely because of the lack of testing in the first months of the pandemic , experts say . 
Several states hit record highs : Overall cases in the US are on the rise . 
The country reported more than 50,000 daily cases on Friday and Saturday . 
The last time the US saw more than 50,000 cases back to back was mid August . 
According to data from Johns Hopkins University , at least 22 states are reporting more new cases than the previous week , with many across the Midwest and now increasingly in the Northeast . 
Only four states are reporting a decline -- Hawaii , Kansas , Missouri and South Carolina . 
The rest are holding steady , and several states have also reported record highs in recent days . 
Alaska , Indiana , Kentucky and Montana reported their highest 7 day averages for new daily cases over the weekend , according to data from Johns Hopkins University . 
Read the full story here . 
