French President Emmanuel Macron will announce this evening " a new stage in our fight against the virus which was decided this morning , " government spokesperson Gabriel Attal said on Wednesday after a cabinet meeting . 
Local media , including France ’s Le Monde newspaper , report that a new lockdown will be announced by the president in an address to the nation at 8 p.m . local ( 3 p.m . ET ) on Wednesday . 
CNN affiliate BFMTV are reporting that the new measures may last four weeks and come into force as early as Thursday evening . 
This potential lockdown would be less strict than the first " confinement " in the spring , with the possibility of some schools and more businesses staying open . 
The French Hospital Federation , a group representing 4,800 hospitals , said in a press release on Wednesday that a full lockdown was the " only solution " that would permit French hospitals to " successfully treat all French people , whether they have Covid , whether they have any other serious illness or are affected by a serious accident . " 
President of the French Hospital Federation Frédéric Valletoux , speaking on French radio station France Inter , stressed that the French " hospital system will not hold without radical measures . " 
Reiterating the federations call for a complete lockdown Valletoux said hospitals are struggling with lower numbers of medical personnel than during the spring . 
What the numbers look like : France may be seeing about 100,000 new coronavirus cases per day , Jean François Delfraissy , who leads the scientific council that advises the French government , warned on Monday . 
Speaking to France 's RTL radio , Delfraissy said , " There are probably over 50,000 cases per day , we are estimating at the scientific council that we are more around 100,000 cases per day , twice as many , because beyond diagnosed cases there are many not diagnosed and asymptomatic cases . " 
Delfraissy added that France is in a " very difficult , even critical , situation . " 
