Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said the administration is prepared to put more money on the table as stalled stimulus negotiations continue on Capitol Hill , but could not say when his team would meet with Democrats . 
Mnuchin declined to say when negotiators would be meeting , but said he heard House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer over the weekend , and " if we can get a fair deal , we ’ll do it this week . " 
" I ’m not gonna comment on the specifics of the logistics of negotiations because I do not think that ’s helpful , " he said when pressed on when they would meet next . 
One area where they were willing to compromise is food assistance for children : " I listened to the Speaker over the weekend . 
She ’s right . 
We started low on food . 
We realize there ’s a lot of kids out there and that there is an issue , " he said , adding that they will " go down the list " on further issues . 
He reiterated the administration ’s position against funding for state and local governments after the President ’s executive action slashed the federal unemployment benefit from $ 600 to $ 400 , requiring states to pay for 25 % . 
Trump told reporters late Sunday it will depend on the state and the federal government could pick up the entire cost if governors make a request , but the action received criticism from many governors . 
Michigan Gov . 
Gretchen Whitmer roundly criticized the move and how it will impact states with " severe holes in our budgets " and suggested it shows he ’s more focused than winning the election than fighting the virus . 
New York Gov . 
Andrew Cuomo called it " laughable . " 
And Ohio Gov . 
Mike De Wine told CNN he ’s not sure if his state will take the federal money . 
Mnuchin said House passed legislation with $ 1 trillion of aid to state and local governments was an " absurd number . " 
He claimed " all 100 % " is coming from the federal government and claimed states had " plenty of money . " 
" The 25 % is not really coming from the states because we ’re authorizing them to use money out of the $ 150 billion we just sent them … I have from every single state how much money they have left over . 
They have plenty of money , " he said . 
He suggested states would get that money back in additional legislation . 
Mnuchin said he would be on Monday ’s governors call and had spoken with many of them amid widespread concern from governors regarding the President ’s executive actions . 
The closed call is at 3:00 p.m . ET . 
