Hello , Matilda Boseley here with you now . 
Just on that previous news , the Australian prime minister has requested the cancellation of the upcoming parliamentary sitting , due to fears of politicians from more heavily infected state mingling and potentially spreading the disease to other states and territories . 
The acting chief medical officer of Australia said in a statement : The entry of a high risk group of individuals could jeopardise the health situation in the [ Australian Capital Territory ] and place residents at unnecessary risk of infection . 
In addition , the health risk to members and senators and their staff from other jurisdictions is a material concern . 
It is my medical advice that , despite proposed mitigation measures , these risks would be significantly higher in the context of a parliamentary sitting period due to the number of persons travelling from Victoria and the inevitable mixing with ACT residents , members , senators , staff and visitors within Parliament House . 
If the speaker grants this request , it means the next parliament sitting fortnight will begin on 24 August rather than 4 August as planned . 
Residents of Australia ’s second most populous city , Melbourne , are waiting with bated breath to see if case numbers reduce in the next few days as the city approaches two weeks of lockdown . 
Yesterday the state of Victoria , where Melbourne is located , recorded a record 428 cases in one day . 
This number is approaching the highest ever national daily total back from the country ’s first wave . 
Health officials are hoping to see a drop in cases from today , the 10th day of serious new city wide lockdowns , otherwise harsher social distancing measures may be on the table . 
A positive Covid 19 case has been found in a Melbourne prison for the first time , raising fears for the safety of inmates . 
The infected man was new to the Metropolitan Remand Centre and was conducting a precautionary two weeks of isolation before entering the main prison population . 
In NSW health officials are still grappling to control a cluster at Sydney ’s Crossroads Hotel , which has now been linked to 42 cases . 
NSW ’s case numbers are still generally in the teen or single digits , but officials fear that this growing cluster could place the state in a similar situation as Victoria . 
As a result , NSW premier Gladys Berejiklian tightened restrictions on restaurants and bars , limiting group numbers to ten a requiring all patrons to be seated while inside . 
Patrons who visited a western Sydney Thai restaurant have also been ordered to get tested and self isolate after a third Covid 19 case linked to the venue . 
NSW Health on Friday afternoon said a customer who dined at Thai Rock in Wetherill Park on 10 July had tested positive for Covid 19 . 
NSW will hold their daily press conference at 11 am local time . 
Up north , Queensland police intercepted more than 43,000 vehicles and turned away 1,143 at the border with New South Wales , and authorities have constructed a 700 metre border wall at the border suburb of Coolangatta . 
Queensland has now banned people from entering the state if they had visited " hotspots " in Sydney . 
Long delays for motorists looking to cross the state border there are expected to last for months . 
