The novel coronavirus is continuing to spread rapidly around the world , with more than 90,000 global cases and over 3,100 deaths . 
More than 70 countries and territories now have confirmed cases of the virus . 
What you need to know : South Korea 's " war " on the coronavirus : Nearly 1,000 new cases announced today pushed the East Asian country 's total past 5,100 , including 29 deaths -- the biggest outbreak outside mainland China . 
The majority of infections are in the southern city of Daegu . 
In a cabinet meeting today , South Korea 's President Moon Jae in said that the whole of South Korea " has entered a war against the infectious disease . " 
Global spread widens : New cases were reported today in countries as far apart as India and Ecuador , and Australia and the UK . 
Meanwhile , Latvia , Tunisia , Jordan , Saudi Arabia , Portugal and Senegal were among countries to report their first confirmed cases of the coronavirus since Monday . 
US cases top 100 : A surge in new cases in Washington state has pushed the total number of infections in the United States past 100 as of Monday evening . 
At least six people in Washington state have died from the virus . 
Speaking on Monday , President Donald Trump said he was still considering additional travel restrictions from countries with rampant coronavirus outbreaks . 
WHO on alert : The director general of the World Health Organization has warned that the virus has brought the world into " unchartered territory . " 
" We have never before seen a respiratory pathogen that is capable of community transmission , but which can also be contained with the right measures , " Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus tweeted . 
Iran receives medical supplies : The World Health Organization has sent aid to Iran , which is currently working to contain a quickly spreading coronavirus epidemic . 
At least 1,500 people have been infected in the country , killing 66 , including a top government adviser . 
Australia stimulus plan : Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said his government will announce a stimulus package , amid a financial slowdown in China and the global spread of the coronavirus . 
There are now 35 cases of the virus in Australia . 
