Latinos in California are becoming ill and dying from Covid 19 at far greater rates than other groups , the state ’s top health official has warned , prompting new outreach and data collection efforts as cases surge . 
Latinos make up 39 % of the population in the US state , but account for 56 % of Covid 19 infections and 46 % of deaths , the California health and human services secretary , Dr Mark Ghaly , said . 
Of particular concern is the heavily Latino Central Valley agricultural region , where cases continue to soar and hospitals are becoming overwhelmed even as the rate of new infections may be slowing in the state overall , Ghaly said . 
Experts said a perfect storm of workplace issues and cultural traditions in the Central Valley has led to a crush of cases that has devastated many families . 
Many Latinos in the Central Valley are poor , working in industries such as agriculture that have been deemed essential during the pandemic . 
Many employers have not reliably provided protective equipment to workers or implemented social distancing or rules requiring masks to be worn , measures essential to containing the virus , state officials say . 
In addition , cultural norms that foster large family gatherings and include many multi generational households have led to fast and deadly transmission of the virus , often to older relatives who are less able to survive . 
On Tuesday , Ghaly said California would implement a new method of tracking Covid 19 as well as other infectious diseases by requiring labs to ask the ethnicity , sexual orientation and gender identity of those they test . 
Also of concern is a high death rate for African Americans who contract the disease , although progress has been made lowering the group ’s overall infection rate , Ghaly said . 
African Americans make up 6 % of California ’s population and account for 4 % of Covid 19 infections but 8.5 % of deaths , he said . 
Whites , who make up 37 % of the population , account for 17.5 % of cases and 30 % of deaths , state data show . 
