A Spanish doctor was struggling to cheer up his 79 year old coronavirus patient . 
Pedro had tested positive for Covid 19 five times and had symptoms for 46 days . 
The doctor reached out to Twitter for help , seeking encouragement from any corner for Pedro . 
" He is despondent and ready to throw in the towel , " Dr . Carlos Hernandez Teixidó wrote on Tuesday . 
" Twitter , do your magic . " 
The response was immediate , global and overwhelming . 
He received 8,100 replies to his post alone , many more direct messages , more than 29,300 likes and it had been retweeted more than 7,900 times . 
In total , Hernandez received more than 15,000 direct messages for Pedro , he told CNN on Thursday . 
" Not just messages , put people have sent pictures , videos , some even played music to try and cheer him up . " 
" We decided to post the tweet to try and get around 15 people to send him a message to lift his spirits , " Hernandez said , confessing he was very surprised at the outpouring of support . 
" We posted it at 3 o ’clock in the afternoon and by midnight we had 300 messages , including from some celebrities in Spain . " 
The messages came not just from Spain , but from neighboring Portugal and from other places in Europe as well as Latin America . 
For a time , the phrase " Hola Pedro " ( or , " Hello Pedro , " ) even became a trending topic on twitter in Spain . 
According to Hernandez , Pedro has several underlying conditions and had spent around a month in the hospital after being diagnosed . 
His condition improved , but since the Covid 19 tests kept coming come back positive , he had to continue isolation at home , without seeing his wife or the rest of his family . 
" I spoke with him a little bit today and he is in very good spirits , " Hernandez said , explaining that for people in Pedro ’s situation , this sort of support " is almost like providing treatment with a drug . " 
But the doctor added that while Pedro ’s condition has improved his most recent test – the sixth – also came back positive for Covid 19 . 
