President Trump addressed a provision in the stimulus bill that gives $ 25 million to the Kennedy Center , a performing arts space in Washington , DC , named for the late President John F . Kennedy . 
Trump said it was a provision from the Democrats that initially started at $ 35 million , but they negotiated to $ 25 million , saying he approved it because he is a " fan " of the facility . 
The Kennedy Center , he said , " has suffered greatly because nobody can go there , it ’s essentially closed . " 
Trump also praised Democratic negotiators . 
" And they do need some funding , and I said , look , that was a Democrat request , that was not my request , but you gotta give them something . 
It ’s something that they wanted , you know , works that way . 
The Democrats have treated us fairly . 
I really believe we ’ve had a very good back and forth . 
And I say that with respect to Chuck Schumer , I spoke to him a number of times , but you know , they had requests also . 
So that was a request , " Trump said . 
Even though the funding is a " lousy soundbite , " Trump was resigned to it . 
" That ’s not a good soundbite but that ’s the way life works . 
With that being said , the Kennedy Center , they do a beautiful job , an incredible job , David Rubenstein does a fantastic job , he ’s very much involved and puts up a lot of money and does things a lot of people would not be able to do . 
But they ’ve been essentially closed . 
They have tremendous deficits that are built up , I mean , this thing has been devastating to it . 
So I did not have problem with it but this was a request from the Democrats because of the fact that they have a facility that ’s essentially closed , " he said , later adding that he ’d " love " to go see Romeo and Juliet , but he ca not because it ’s closed . 
Trump ’s son , Donald Trump Jr . , lambasted funding for the arts included in the bill last night , tweeting , " Republicans want to save your job , Democrats want to save the Picassos . " 
Watch : 
