At midnight Monday , the United States will implement a new slate of travel restrictions to combat coronavirus spread , limiting transit from the United Kingdom and Ireland , following a weekend of confusion and frustration at select airports nationwide . 
This time , though , officials say they 'll be better prepared . 
A flurry of images on Saturday showed passengers squeezed together and waiting to get through US customs , after returning from overseas . 
Passengers shared stories of hours long backups , inconsistent screenings , and waiting shoulder to shoulder to be processed through . 
Wait times have since decreased . 
But as the Trump administration remedies the issues raised over the weekend , it 's on the cusp of putting in place more restrictions that could also sow confusion . 
What we know : To avoid the backups that occurred over the weekend , US Customs and Border Protection is upping its staff at airports and adding more people on shifts . 
CBP has also streamlined the process , in coordination with others involved in screening , in order to expedite the processing and screening capacity to avoid long wait times . 
The enhanced screenings are part of an administration effort to handle the coronavirus pandemic . 
Countries around the world have shut down their borders and placed increased restrictions on movement and social gatherings . 
The Trump administration began by restricting travel from China , then Iran . 
Last week , Trump extended those restrictions to include certain European countries , effective Friday night . 
The United Kingdom and Ireland were initially excluded , but limits for those countries take effect Monday at midnight . 
US citizens , green card holders and their family members are exempt from the restrictions . 
What 's happening Monday night : Starting at 11:59 p.m . ET Monday , people returning home from Ireland and the United Kingdom will also undergo enhanced entry at the same 13 airports , according to the Department of Homeland Security . 
Passengers coming in from Europe 's Schengen Area—26 countries stretching from Iceland to Greece—have been funneled to the airports where they undergo enhanced screening . 
They first go through customs , then are screened by Homeland Security medical contractors , and in the event , someone exhibits symptoms or other red flags , passengers will be referred to CDC personnel on site . 
Officials expect changes made to the system and collaboration with the airline industry will put CBP , and the agencies working alongside them , in a position to respond to new arrivals . 
The Department of Homeland Security did not respond to requests for comment . 
