The cancellation of large scale events in the US is presenting challenges for Democratic campaigns as well as President Donald Trump 's re election campaign . 
The Trump campaign depends on the trove of data produced by his " Keep America Great " arena rallies to target and engage potential voters , and without regular rallies in key states , they are being forced to improvise . 
Trump 's team is now touting its unique preparedness through " unprecedented virtual and digital campaign tools . " 
According to a campaign press release , those tools are expected to include : " holding virtual events with top surrogates , utilizing online platforms to train thousands of members of the Trump Neighborhood Team , activating the massive volunteer network to make calls to rally support for the President in states voting soon , and increasing online voter registration efforts of Trump rally attendees identified as not currently registered to vote . " 
The events currently scheduled on the campaign ’s website are " in the process of being turned into virtual seminars and a Trump Victory Organizer will contact attendees with more details , " the website says . 
Trump has a key advantage over his Democratic opponent during the public health crisis : incumbent status . 
" Americans want to see their President , their elected officials , their government acting in ways that protect the safety of the citizens and the national security of this country , " campaign communications director Tim Murtaugh told CNN . 
The Trump campaign is currently requiring all staffers at its Northern Virginia headquarters to work from home through Monday while the office undergoes a deep clean . 
It 's unclear if the office will reopen on Tuesday . 
Trump initially pushed his campaign not to cancel any events in light of the coronavirus outbreak , and aides fear a restless President if he 's unable to hold rallies , something he 's done continuously throughout his time in office . 
The risk of holding campaign events came to light this week after a donor who attended a Trump Victory event , which raises money for the campaign and Republican National Commitee , tested positive for coronavirus . 
