Hubei , the Chinese province at the center of the novel coronavirus outbreak , announced 631 new infections today , after authorities changed the definition of a " confirmed case . " 
Only patients who have tested positive for the virus are now counted in the official figures , Chinese authorities said on Thursday . 
The Hubei government updated the number of new infections twice today to include more than 200 cases from the province 's prisons . 
At least 500 people have been infected by the coronavirus in China 's prison system . 
Cases increase : More than 1,100 new confirmed cases have been recorded in China , according to government figures . 
The total number of cases in mainland China is now more than 75,600 , with the global total over 76,900 . 
Death toll rises : The number of people killed by the virus continues to rise , with 118 more deaths announced in mainland China today -- 115 of them in Hubei . 
In total , the global death toll is now 2,247 . 
Prison outbreaks : 512 cases of the coronavirus were announced today from inside China 's prisons -- 271 in Hubei , 207 in Shandong and 34 in Zhejiang . 
It is not clear why these infections have been announced today , or whether there are more cases waiting to be disclosed in China 's other provinces . 
South Korea cases spike : The number of cases in South Korea has soared , from 28 a week ago to at least 204 as of Friday afternoon . 
The outbreak there is centered around the southern city of Daegu . 
Among the new cases , most are linked to the Shincheonji group . 
South Korean authorities Thursday were seeking to question more than 1,000 members of the religious group who attended a service with one of the recently confirmed cases . 
Two patients who have been diagnosed with coronavirus have died in South Korea , according to the country 's Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( KCDC ) . 
The first patient tested positive for the virus after their death , according to the KCDC on Thursday . 
On Friday , KCDC director Jung Eun Kyeong said the victim had a chronic lung disease and had been hospitalized for a long period of time . 
Jung also stated that the second patient , identified as a woman born in 1965 , was confirmed to have the virus on Friday . 
Seoul tries to control spread : The South Korean government announced today it has taken a range of measures in an attempt to stop the spread of the virus , including shutting down public places in the capital and designating " special care zones . " 
After three cases were detected in the country 's armed forces , all South Korean military personnel have been restricted from leaving their bases and going on vacation . 
Evacuees test positive : Several passengers from the Diamond Princess cruise ship who were evacuated by the United States and Australia have tested positive for the coronavirus , local health authorities say . 
In the US , 11 out of 13 Diamond Princess evacuees who were taken to the University of Nebraska Medical Center for testing have been confirmed to be infected . 
Two Australian evacuees who have been infected are being housed in a special isolation unit at the Howard Springs Quarantine Facility . 
A further 13 cases were confirmed onboard the stricken ship today . 
In total , 639 cases of the virus have been linked to the vessel , including two deaths . 
Passengers disembark : More passengers who have tested negative for the virus are leaving the Diamond Princess today , the third day of departures from the formerly quarantined ship . 
Westerdam crew test negative : In a statement today , Westerdam operator Holland America Line announced all 747 crew had tested negative for the coronavirus . 
It said that Cambodia had now cleared all passengers and crew of the virus . 
Police quarantine : A Hong Kong police officer was among three new infections announced Thursday , the city 's government said . 
According to the police statement , the infected officer was the leader of the North Point anti riot police squad . 
He had dinner with 59 other police officers at a restaurant on February 18 . 
They have now all been placed into quarantine . 
This post has been updated to more accurately reflect when coronavirus was detected in the first patient who died in South Korea , and added details of the second patient who died in the country . 
