The number of deaths from all causes recorded in Russia in October rose by nearly 50,000 on the previous year , the country ’s statistics agency said on Thursday . 
According to the Rosstat agency , 205,500 people died in Russia in October , a rise of 47,800 on October 2019 . 
It did not give any explanation for the excess mortality in its latest monthly report , but said 22,761 people died in October who were either among confirmed or suspected Covid 19 cases . 
These included 11,630 cases where the primary cause of death was Covid 19 . 
The numbers are higher than AFP ’s own count of 7,274 coronavirus deaths in October , based on official figures . 
Between April and the end of October 2020 , excess mortality in Russia now stands at almost 165,000 deaths compared to last year . 
Since the start of the pandemic , only 45,280 deaths from Covid 19 have been officially recorded . 
Russia has been criticised for its methodology in calculating coronavirus deaths with authorities only listing deaths which after post mortem are considered to have had coronavirus as the primary cause . 
The last time Russia recorded such a high monthly figure was in August 2010 , a period that saw huge fires and the subsequent air pollution affect Moscow . 
In many countries , especially in western Europe , almost all deaths of patients with a positive coronavirus test are included in the national Covid 19 death toll . 
Russia was one of the first countries to announce the development of a vaccine which it named Sputnik V after a Soviet era satellite . 
It launched a mass vaccination programme last week with developers saying the vaccine is 95 percent effective based on interim trial results . 
Despite the start of Russia ’s vaccination campaign , however , Sputnik V is yet to complete its third and final phase of trials involving some 40,000 volunteers . 
Since the emergence of the virus late last year Russia has registered over 2.5 million infections , over 44,000 of them fatal . 
Russia ’s second city St Petersburg on Tuesday logged a record number of virus deaths as authorities warned of an imminent lockdown and shuttered restaurants for the New Year ’s holidays . 
St Petersburg - one of Russia ’s most popular tourist destinations - is struggling with a major health crisis , with hospitals overwhelmed with coronavirus patients but residents flouting social distancing and other measures . 
By comparison , Moscow , the outbreak ’s epicentre , registered 5,232 new cases and 71 new fatalities . 
