UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson says Britain ’s coronavirus testing record compares favorably to other European countries , adding that recent problems are due to a " colossal spike " in demand . 
" What is happening is that the British people -- quite understandably -- are responding to that system with a huge , huge surge in demand and so it ’s very important that everybody follows the guidance about when they should be getting a test , " Johnson told the House of Commons on Wednesday . 
However , the government has at times sent mixed messages on who should be getting coronavirus tests . 
Last week , Health Secretary Matt Hancock told the BBC that there had been " a rise in the number of people who are not eligible for a test coming forward and getting those tests . " 
He estimated that 25 % of those getting tested were not eligible . 
UK government guidelines are that only those displaying one of three symptoms , or those who have been asked by a government body , are eligible for a test . 
Nonetheless , on July 21 , Hancock tweeted that " anybody who needs a test can get a test , " and that " if you have symptoms , if in doubt , get a test . " 
But the National Health Service Providers organization , which represents many of the UK ’s hospitals and other health services , says some health staff are having to isolate for extended periods because they are unable to access coronavirus testing . 
UK Home Secretary Priti Patel said Tuesday that it is " unacceptable " that some people in the country have reportedly been asked to wait weeks , or travel hundreds of miles , for a coronavirus test . 
Testing is the latest hurdle for Johnson 's government , which has been criticized for its handling of the pandemic as the UK has so far recorded the highest number of coronavirus deaths in Europe . 
And reported coronavirus infections have been surging again in the UK . 
There were an average of 3,004 new infections per day in the seven days to Tuesday , compared to 2,032 per day in the previous seven day period . 
