Countries worldwide are now implementing drastic emergency measures to deal with the pandemic -- lockdowns , travel bans , and quarantines . 
Here are the latest developments : The virus is spreading across the US . 
President Trump has tested negative for the virus . 
The new travel ban , which went into effect on Friday midnight , has been extended to include the UK and Ireland , as well as 26 European countries . 
The virus has now reached 49 of the country 's 50 states ; only West Virginia has yet to report any cases . 
Dozens of states have declared states of emergency , and individual cities and counties are declaring emergency measures , like a 10 p.m . curfew in Hoboken , New Jersey . 
Things do not look much better in Europe . 
Italy remains under total lockdown , with the second highest number of cases globally after China . 
Reports are emerging of hospitals struggling to deal with the volume of patients . 
Spain 's residents are now restricted from leaving their homes ; they can only leave for work , groceries or emergency supply runs , hospitalizations , and caring for other family members . 
And France is closing all bars , restaurants , cafes , clubs , and cinemas . 
Many European countries -- Spain , France , and Germany , in particular -- have seen dramatic spikes in case numbers this week , with hundreds of new infections a day . 
The situation is improving in some Asian countries ... 
China and South Korea reported a dramatic fall in new daily cases all week , suggesting that the outbreak may have passed its peak in these hard hit countries . 
Other places in Asia , like Hong Kong , are still reporting a handful of new cases , but the rate of infection has slowed compared to a few weeks ago . ... But not all : In Japan , numbers are spiking , with new cases reaching twice the average daily figure . 
And the Philippines ' capital region of Metro Manila is now under partial lockdown -- meaning restricted movement , screenings at border points , employees working from home , and community quarantines . 
