Senior ministers in Boris Johnson 's government have rallied behind a top aide after it was reported he breached the country 's coronavirus lockdown . 
Dominic Cummings traveled across England to stay at his family 's home while suffering from coronavirus symptoms , it has emerged . 
His decision to travel out of London was " most unwise , " the acting Durham Police , Crime and Victims ’ Commissioner , Steve White said on Saturday . 
" Given the whole ethos of the guidance and regulations issued from the Government was to reduce the spread , regardless of reason , by traveling to County Durham when known to be infected was most unwise , " he said in a statement . 
" Incidents such as this do not help , and I can appreciate that the longer this goes on the harder it gets . " 
Cummings made the trip despite Johnson urging people to stay at home and banning people from visiting family members . 
The UK 's self isolation guidelines also state people with symptoms must not leave their home . 
But Downing Street has nonetheless insisted that the aide did not breach lockdown guidelines , and a number of senior members of Johnson 's Cabinet leapt to his defense on Saturday . 
" Caring for your wife and child is not a crime , " Michael Gove tweeted . 
Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab added : " It ’s reasonable and fair to ask for an explanation on this . 
And it has been provided : two parents with Coronavirus , were anxiously taking care of their young child . 
Those now seeking to politicise it should take a long hard look in the mirror . " 
" Taking care of your wife and young child is justifiable and reasonable , trying to score political points over it is not , " Chancellor Rishi Sunak added . 
Pressure is nonetheless mounting on Johnson to sack Cummings . 
Days before he made the tip , the Prime Minister sent the UK into lockdown and gave the public " a very simple instruction -- you must stay at home . " 
" The British people do not expect there to be one rule for them and another rule for Dominic Cummings , " the Labour Party said in a statement . 
The leaders of the Scottish National Party and Liberal Democrats meanwhile called on Cummings , who played a senior role in the pro Brexit campaign in 2016 and joined Boris Johnson in Downing Street last year , to resign or be sacked . 
