There were 20 % more deaths than expected in the United States from March 1 through August 1 , with Covid 19 officially accounting for about two thirds of them , according to new research published Monday in the medical journal JAMA . 
" Although total US death counts are remarkably consistent from year to year , US deaths increased by 20 % during March–July 2020 , " said the research , authored by Dr . Steven Woolf and colleagues at the Virginia Commonwealth School of Medicine . 
" Covid 19 was a documented cause of only 67 % of these excess deaths . " 
There were at least 1,336,561 deaths in the US between March 1 and August 1 , the study said – a 20 % increase over what would normally be expected . 
New York , New Jersey , Massachusetts , Louisiana , Arizona , Mississippi , Maryland , Delaware , Rhode Island and Michigan were the ten states with the highest per capita rate of excess deaths . 
The increase in absolute deaths varied from 22 % in Rhode Island and Michigan to 65 % in New York . 
New York , New Jersey and Massachusetts – the three states with the highest death rates – accounted for 30 % of US excess deaths , but had the shortest epidemics , according to the researchers . 
Of the approximately 225,530 excess deaths , at least 150,541 – or 67 % – of them were attributed to Covid 19 . 
Analysis found that there were increases in deaths related to causes other than Covid 19 , including the US mortality rate for heart disease , which increased between the weeks ending March 21 and April 11 , " driven by the spring surge in Covid 19 cases ; " and mortality rates for Alzheimer ’s disease and dementia , which increased twice . 
The second increase , between the weeks ending June 6 and July 25 – " coinciding with the summer surge in sunbelt states . " 
" Some states had greater difficulty than others in containing community spread , causing protracted elevations in excess deaths that extended into the summer , " the authors said . 
They also added that excess deaths attributed to something other than Covid 19 could be a reflection of deaths from unrecognized or undocumented cases or deaths among noninfected patients who faced disruptions caused by the pandemic . 
The study did have some limitations , including that it relied on provisional data , inaccuracies in death certificates , and assumptions that were applied to the model . 
