California 's Judicial Council approved a series of temporary emergency rules Monday , including staying eviction and foreclosure proceedings during the Covid 19 pandemic , a vote that reinforces Democratic Gov . 
Gavin Newsom 's executive order to delay such actions against renters and homeowners in the state . 
During a teleconference Monday afternoon , the council also moved to set bail statewide at $ 0 for misdemeanors and lower level felonies to " safely reduce jail populations . " 
Chief Justice Tani G . Cantil Sakauye opened the session saying , " ( We are ) trying our best to preserve rights and ultimately preserve lives . " 
" We are at this point truly with no guidance in either history , law or precedent . 
And to say that there is no playbook is a gross understatement of the situation . " 
District attorney Jackie Lacey , who presides over Los Angeles County where a zero bail measure was implemented last week to reduce the number of inmates , applauded the decision . 
" I appreciate the collaboration among criminal justice leaders in Los Angeles County that has resulted in the rapid deployment of new and innovative approaches as we work to try to stop the spread of COVID 19 in our community , " Lacey said in a statement . 
In total the council approved 11 temporary emergency rules . 
Among the actions the council approved , to go into effect immediately are : Suspend the entry of defaults in eviction cases ; 
Suspend judicial foreclosures ; 
Allow courts to require judicial proceedings and court operations be conducted remotely , with the defendant ’s consent in criminal proceedings ; 
Adopt a statewide emergency bail schedule that sets bail at $ 0 for most misdemeanor and lower level felony offenses ; 
Allow defendants to appear via counsel or remote technologies for pretrial criminal hearings ; 
Prioritize hearings and orders in juvenile justice proceedings and set a structure for remote hearings and continuances ; 
Extend the timeframes for specified temporary restraining orders ; 
Extend the statutes of limitations governing civil actions ; and Allow electronic depositions in civil cases . 
