Brazil recorded 904 new coronavirus deaths and 27,075 new virus cases over the past 24 hours , the country ’s ministry of health said Saturday , as the virus continued to ravage the South American nation . 
The newly reported virus cases bring the total number of deaths Brazil has reported during the pandemic to 35,930 and the total number of reported cases to 672,846 . 
But Jair Bolsonaro 's government has not reported official cumulative nationwide totals since Thursday June 4 , the day the South American nation surpassed Italy in its reported Covid 19 fatalities . 
The ministry of health has instead only reported the number of cases and deaths newly recorded over the preceding 24 hours . 
That move has drawn sharp criticism , with a top judge , an association of state health secretaries and the Brazilian media protesting the decision to pare down publicly available Covid 19 statistics . 
Supreme Court Minister Gilmar Mendes wrote on Twitter on Saturday : " The manipulation of statistics is a maneuver made by authoritarian regimes . 
It ’s an attempt to hide the Covid 19 numbers to reduce social control of health policies . 
The trick will not exempt [ officials ] from responsibility for an eventual genocide . 
# No Censorship # Dicatorship Never Again " CNN is reporting nationwide death and case totals by adding each day ’s newly reported cases and deaths to the last cumulative death and case toll reported by the government . 
A spokesperson for Johns Hopkins University told CNN by e mail on Saturday that its Coronavirus Resource Center map is employing the same methodology . 
On Friday , a major Brazilian daily , O Globo , published an interview with the health ministry ’s new secretary of science and technology , Carlos Wizard , in which he said Brazil ’s health ministry will recount the country ’s Covid 19 death toll , alleging that the number was " fanciful or manipulated . " 
According to O Globo , Wizard said : " A lot of people died of other causes and the local health officials , solely out of their interest in having a larger budget for their municipalities , their states , were labeling every death as Covid . 
We are re evaluating those deaths . " 
A national council representing state health secretaries ( CONASS ) issued a condemnation of Wizard ’s comments on Saturday . 
" In saying that state health secretaries falsify data about Covid 19 deaths in a bid for a greater ‘ budget , ’ the secretary , in addition to showing his profound ignorance about the issue , insults the memory of all those helpless victims of this terrible pandemic and their families , " the statement said . 
