For Lucia Dario , a nurse caring for Covid 19 patients at the Gemelli hospital in Rome , it is the emotional side of this epidemic that has been particularly draining . 
Yes , the full body suit gets sweaty and wearing three pairs of gloves on top of each other — a necessary protection against the virus — makes her feel clumsy . 
But it 's the feeling of not being able to do more that is the toughest , she says . 
For the first few days of Italy 's coronavirus crisis , she 'd finish her shift , get into her car and cry . 
She felt useless . 
" The isolation rooms are like bunkers , they are parallel realities , " she said , describing the eerie atmosphere on the ward as " silence that screams . " 
Dario and her colleagues are the only human contact these patients ' rooms get . 
" We ask them what they need , almost everyone says nothing , at most they ask for water , " she said . 
Some lock eyes with her , she said , almost to signal that they will meet again one day , without the masks . 
She hears people sobbing , coughing and praying through the night . 
" Some turn the TV on at a very high volume to stop their thoughts , " the nurse said . 
Hospitals around the world have been on strict lockdown , banning visitors and limiting contact between patients , due to the highly infectious virus . 
Oli Pohlová is a part time nurse at the pulmonology ward of a hospital in the Czech town of Mladá Boleslav . 
With more than 600 beds , this hospital plays an important role in the region . 
It 's normally buzzing with activity , but since Covid 19 hit , its doors have been shut to all visitors . 
" It 's very hard for the patients , many of them have not seen their families for a really long time , " she said . 
So , as well as all the other tasks , nurses have also found themselves trying to give patients some company and relief from not being able to see their loved ones . 
" It 's up to us now to chat with them , try to make them laugh for a bit , ask questions ... you ca not substitute the families , of course , but hopefully you can help a bit , " Pohlová said . 
Dario has been a nurse for 20 years , but she said she has never witnessed anything like this crisis . 
One dying patient has recently asked Dario to read her the last rites . 
" We are not priests of course , but we tried to do our best , " Dario said . 
She prayed with the elderly woman . 
She passed away later , alone , far from her family . 
READ MORE : The nurses risking it all on the frontline of Britain 's coronavirus outbreak 
