New US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines on education and childcare come down hard in favor of opening schools , saying children do not suffer much from coronavirus , are less likely than adults to spread it , and suffer from being out of school . 
But the new guidelines posted Thursday do recommend that local officials should consider closing schools , or keeping them closed , if there is substantial , uncontrolled transmission of the virus . 
The CDC has been promising new guidelines for more than a week , after demands from President Trump that the agency alter its recommendations for opening schools . 
They were posted on the agency ’s website Thursday afternoon with little public notice and no explanation of what has been changed . 
They start with an unsigned statement on " the importance of reopening America ’s schools this fall . " 
The CDC said scientific studies suggest that Covid 19 " transmission among children in schools may be low . " 
" International studies that have assessed how readily Covid 19 spreads in schools also reveal low rates of transmission when community transmission is low , " the organization said . 
More details : The CDC statement says extended school closures harm children . 
" It can lead to severe learning loss , and the need for in person instruction is particularly important for students with heightened behavioral needs , " it reads . 
The new guidance notes that children often get food , mental health care , speech language therapy and other services at school . 
Other guidance takes into account the risk of transmission in schools and from schools . 
Many medical experts have said it ’s not safe to open schools while coronavirus is spreading in a community . 
The guidelines take note of these arguments . 
The guidelines suggest that school administrators consider keeping children in cohorts or pods to reduce the risk of spread . 
They also encourage the use of social distancing , hand hygiene , face masks and other measures to control spread – and incorporating these measures into school curricula . 
" There is mixed evidence about whether returning to school results in increased transmission or outbreaks , " the guidelines note , and reference studies done in other countries that have taken various approaches to reopening schools . 
" It is important to consider community transmission risk as schools reopen . 
Evidence from schools internationally suggests that school re openings are safe in communities with low SARS Co V 2 transmission rates . " 
The guidelines recommend against screening all students for coronavirus . 
" CDC does not currently recommend universal symptom screenings ( screening all students grades K 12 ) be conducted by schools , " the guidelines read . 
" Parents or caregivers should be strongly encouraged to monitor their children for signs of infectious illness every day , " they add . 
" Students who are sick should not attend school in person . " 
