Over 100,000 infections : The novel coronavirus has now killed nearly 3,500 people , and infected over 101,400 , according to CNN 's tally -- the vast majority in mainland China . 
Coronavirus hotel collapse : Search and rescue efforts are underway after about 70 people were trapped in a hotel collapse Saturday night in southeastern China , officials in the city of Quanzhou said . 
The hotel was used as a coronavirus quarantine center . 
US cases top 400 : There are now at least 437 cases of the virus in the United States , with 30 states announcing confirmed or presumptive positive cases . 
The US has recorded 17 deaths linked to the virus . 
New York declares state of emergency : NY Governor Andrew Cuomo has declared a state of emergency in order to have " a more expedited purchasing and testing protocol . " 
Thirteen more cases were reported in New York on Saturday , bringing the state total to 89 . 
Italy considering lockdown : The Italian cabinet is discussing a draft proposal that could potentially put people in the region of Lombardy and 11 other provinces in northern Italy under lockdown due to coronavirus , according to a close adviser to one of the ministers attending the cabinet meeting . 
Italy saw a dramatic increase in the number of confirmed coronavirus cases today , with a rise of 1,247 in a single day . 
CPAC attendee tests positive : One of the attendees at last week ’s Conservative Political Action Conference ( CPAC ) in National Harbor , Maryland , tested positive for coronavirus . 
There 's no indication that President Donald Trump or Vice President Mike Pence , who attended the event , " met with or were in close proximity to the attendee . " 
Grand Princess cruise : A critically ill passenger and her husband were " medically disembarked " from the Grand Princess cruise ship by the US Coast Guard . 
Twenty one people have been diagnosed with the coronavirus aboard the cruise ship , which is in quarantine off the California coast . 
Life Care Center : Seventy employees at the Life Care Center in Kirkland , Washington , are showing symptoms of novel coronavirus , according to Tim Killian , spokesperson for the facility . 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has provided " extra nurses , practitioners and doctors " to the facility . 
Egyptian cruise ship : A quarantined cruise ship in Egypt carrying 171 people now has 45 confirmed cases of coronavirus , according to state run Al Ahram news agency . 
The Luxor Nile traveled from Aswan to Luxor , where it is now docked . 
And if you 're told to self quarantine , here 's what you need to know . 
