Moscow health authorities have revised the city 's coronavirus death toll for April , revealing that more than twice as many people died than previously reported . 
Officials raised the documented number of fatalities attributed to Covid 19 to 1,561 up from 636 . 
CNN and other news outlets reported in mid May that Moscow saw a mortality spike in April , adding an estimated 1,800 excess deaths in comparison with previous year averages . 
Russia ’s official number of Covid 19 deaths has been relatively low compared to countries with similar numbers of overall infections , and observers have questioned official counting methods that permit ascribing deaths in patients who tested positive for coronavirus to other causes such as terminal illnesses and other underlying conditions . 
In the report , the city health department said it revised the toll according to new counting guidelines and included even the " most debatable " cases in its overall figures . 
The report reveals that , in addition to the initially reported 636 fatalities , another 756 people who tested positive for coronavirus died in April . 
Their deaths were originally ascribed to other causes , but for some , " the virus became the catalyst for the main condition " and its lethal complications , the report states . 
Authorities also added 169 deaths to the toll to include people who tested negative for coronavirus , but for whom coronavirus was established as the main cause of death through post mortem examination . 
Moscow authorities said that , even with a revised death toll , the Russian capital ’s mortality rate from Covid 19 remains lower than in other comparably large cities such as London and New York . 
City officials as well as Russia ’s central government have warned the public the numbers for May will be higher . 
Russia ’s regions have mostly followed Moscow ’s lead in its response to the pandemic as well as with counting cases , so revising the counting method may lead to an increase in the death toll across the country . 
Some regions have been reporting " double statistics , " releasing numbers of deaths in coronavirus positive patients that have been officially ascribed to other causes in national figures . 
Officials in Dagestan , one of the worst hit areas in Russia , have previously said publicly their overall death toll was much higher than what is reflected in federal statistics . 
