Errors by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and a hospital in San Diego led to a woman with the novel coronavirus being sent back to Marine Corps Air Station Miramar instead of being sent to isolation at the hospital , according to a health official familiar with the situation . 
The woman was among Americans in federal quarantine at the base . 
She flew to the base on February 5 on a State Department flight evacuating Americans from Wuhan , China . 
The next day she started experiencing symptoms of the novel coronavirus and was taken to UC San Diego Health . 
Three other people who were exhibiting symptoms were also transported to the hospital . 
The hospital sent their specimens to a CDC lab in Atlanta for testing . 
According to the source , the specimens were incorrectly labeled upon arrival and so they were not tested . 
The CDC lab did not realize the specimens were from the four Miramar patients . 
When no results were reported back , CDC staffers mistakenly gave UC San Diego Health the results of four other patients who tested negative . 
That mistake led to all four Miramar patients being transferred back to the base Sunday afternoon . 
After they arrived back at the base , the mistake was discovered and the tests were run on the four Miramar patients . 
The results for the woman came back positive , and she was transported back to UC San Diego Health on Monday morning , where she remains in isolation . 
The woman has had a very mild illness , according to the source , with no fever and a slight cough . 
The other three patients tested negative . 
A spokesperson for the hospital could not be immediately reached for comment . 
During a news conference on Tuesday , Dr . Anne Schuchat , principal deputy director of the CDC , said " there was a little bit of a mix up there " around the testing for the Miramar patient . 
She added that the patient may have had limited contact with other people when she developed symptoms , but the investigation is ongoing . 
