This is the week things either finally come together or they fall apart for good on the stimulus . 
Aides and members spent the entire weekend trying to close out outstanding issues from food stamp benefits to state and local funding . 
Lawmakers spent Sunday afternoon on an hours long Zoom call . 
And while aides on both sides of the aisle , agree a lot of progress was made , the bipartisan group still is not finished with writing its bill . 
Sen . 
Joe Manchin , a Democrat from West Virginia , said last week that bill text would be out Monday . 
We ’ll see about that . 
Remember : Even if the bipartisan group of lawmakers from the House and the Senate reach an agreement among themselves does not mean it ’s the end of talks . 
This has largely been seen as a starting point for leadership . 
Mc Connell has not committed to putting anything on the floor . 
And , Pelosi and Schumer were careful in their endorsement of this process last week that this is a starting point . 
What to watch for this week : Expect to see some summaries rolled out as early as today , but aides say there still is not complete agreement on the two issues that have flummoxed leadership and negotiators for months : state and local funding and liability insurance . 
State and local funding : Right now , lawmakers are very close on this issue . 
They ’re eyeing $ 160 billion for state and local funding that would be based on two factors . 
The first would be based in part on population . 
The second , would be based on states and localities demonstrating a loss in revenue . 
The tentative framework right now would cap the amount of money any state can get . 
The reason for that is Republicans do not want this program to become a major slush fund for Democratic states like New York of California , which they argue were having problems with budget shortfalls long before Covid 19 hit . 
Liability insurance : This has been THE issue for Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell since the late spring . 
And as aides and members tried to iron out a middle ground over the weekend , it became clear just how hard it is to find one . 
Republicans have been backchanneling potential proposals with GOP leadership , but there still is not an agreement . 
It ’s the issue that is proving the most difficult to solve . 
