The US government is exploring 14 Covid 19 vaccine candidates out of more than 100 currently in development worldwide , with plans to narrow the list to about seven before further testing , senior Trump administration officials said during a telephone briefing on Tuesday . 
Large scale , randomized trials would then be conducted with the most promising candidates from those seven . 
How they will decide on the seven is an ongoing discussion but the criteria will be those that are safest , most effective and technologies that lend themselves to faster manufacturing to scale . 
More on the vaccine candidates : Some of the 14 vaccine candidate options are already in clinical trials with US government support . 
The senior administration officials did not specify which 14 candidates are being considered , but some vaccine candidates have been previously identified receiving government support . 
In March , the US Department of Health and Human Services announced $ 456 million in funds for Johnson & Johnson ’s candidate vaccine , with phase one clinical trials set to begin this summer . 
The following month , HHS made around $ 483 million available to Moderna in support of its candidate vaccine , which began phase one trials on March 16 and received a fast track designation from US Food and Drug Administration , which makes it eligible for " accelerated approval " and " priority review " and ensures frequent communication with the FDA throughout the approval process . 
And in May , HHS announced more than a billion dollars in support of Astra Zeneca ’s Covid 19 vaccine candidate , being developed in conjunction with the University of Oxford , along with a pledge to eventually make 300 million doses available to the United States with the first ones being delivered as early as October . 
The senior administration officials cautioned that it is not 100 % certain a viable vaccine will come from the 14 candidates , and there is a chance that if one is developed it could be better suited to certain demographics . 
But the government is taking as many steps as possible to ensure a safe and effective vaccine by January , officials said . 
If and when a vaccine is developed , officials said they do not expect to vaccinate all Americans initially and certain groups will be prioritized . 
