The head of British drug manufacturer Astra Zeneca said further research was needed on its Covid 19 vaccine after questions emerged over the protection it offers , but the additional testing is unlikely to affect regulatory approval in Europe . 
Astra Zeneca and its partner , the University of Oxford , announced on Monday that it was seeking regulatory approval for the vaccine after it showed an average 70 % effectiveness . 
That rate jumped to 90 % when an initial half dose then a full dose was given , similar to that of rival vaccines in development by Pfizer/Bio NTech and Moderna . 
But it emerged the higher rate of effectiveness came during tests in people aged 55 and under , and was discovered by accident during the clinical trials . 
The head of the Oxford Vaccine Group , Andrew Pollard , said this week that further evidence will be available next month , but the result was still " highly significant " . 
" Now that we ’ve found what looks like a better efficacy , we have to validate this , so we need to do an additional study , " Astra Zeneca chief executive Pascal Soriot told Bloomberg . 
He said he expected there would be another " international study but this one could be faster because we know the efficacy is high , so we need a smaller number of patients " . 
The additional trial was not likely to delay regulatory approval in Britain and the EU , Soriot said . 
There are high hopes for the Astra Zeneca/Oxford vaccine , which Pollard has hailed as a " vaccine for the world " given that it could be cheaper to make , and easier to store and distribute . 
It can be stored , transported and handled at normal refrigerated conditions of between two and eight degrees Celsius ( 36-46 Fahrenheit ) for at least six months . 
Pfizer/Bio NTech ’s offering requires temperatures of - 70C , driving up costs and potentially making it out of reach for lower and middle income countries . 
Astra Zeneca/Oxford has also promised to provide its vaccine to the developing world on a non profit basis . 
