Greece : From Monday , a limited number of international flights will be allowed to land in Athens . 
This will be widened from June 15 , when visitors from 29 countries will be allowed to fly into the country ’s two main airports in Athens and Thessaloniki . 
The list of countries will be extended again on July 1 . 
Every arriving passenger must be tested for the virus and stay overnight at a designated hotel . 
Visitors who test negative must self quarantine for 7 days , while those who test positive must spend 14 days under supervised quarantine . 
Restaurants and cafes across Greece resumed operations on May 25 . 
France : Cafes , bars , restaurants , beaches and lakes will reopen Tuesday . 
Gatherings must be limited to 10 people and the capacity of outdoor spaces will be limited to 5,000 people , under the condition that social distancing rules are enforced . 
Parks reopened Saturday . 
Italy : From June 3 , travel restrictions to and from foreign countries will be lifted . 
People will be allowed to travel between regions . 
Spain : From Monday , around 70 % of the Spanish population will move to phase two of restriction easing , which allows meetings of up to 15 people from different households , some restaurant service indoors , and the opening of stores , cinemas and museums but with occupancy limits . 
Small islands in Spain 's Balearic and Canary Islands will advance to phase three , which eases even more restrictions . 
The Madrid region , which includes Spain ’s capital and surrounding cities , will remain in phase one without any changes . 
Denmark : Tourists from Germany , Norway and Iceland will be able to enter Denmark starting June 15 . 
Tourists must document that they have booked a stay of at least six overnights in Denmark . 
England : From Monday , groups of up to six people can meet outdoors , including in gardens and other private outdoor spaces , provided strict social distancing guidelines are followed . 
It 's possible to send children to school or nursery if they are in early years , reception , year 1 or year 6 . 
Elite athletes can train and compete using the specified gyms , pools and sports facilities . 
Outdoor markets and car showrooms can reopen . 
Wales : People from two different households will be able to meet each other outdoors . 
Scotland : Household waste and recycling centers will reopen to the public from Monday . 
Teachers will be allowed to reenter schools on June 1 to begin preparations for schools reopening on August 11 . 
Childcare services and outdoor nurseries will reopen from Wednesday with limits placed on the number of children that can be cared for . 
