White House chief of staff Mark Meadows this afternoon defended President Trump ’s remarks that children are " almost " or " virtually immune " to coronavirus . 
" I do not think he ’s giving a false sense of security at all , " Meadows responded after CNN 's Wolf Blitzer pointed out that the statement the President made this morning on Fox New was " not true at all . " 
Meadows went on to argue that the common flu represents a greater threat to the health of children than coronavirus , adding that " parents need to understand that because we all want to make sure we protect our kids . " 
Blitzer pushed back , asking " but you agree that when the President says kids are virtually immune , they are not virtually immune . 
They 're potentially in real danger ? " 
Meadows did not agree , but said the administration was focused on protecting children , even while pushing to reopen schools amid a deepening pandemic . 
" As a parent , I care about my kids as your viewers right now , they 're thinking about their kids ... we do need to make sure they are protected and yet , at the same time , we 're taking every step that we can to do that and make sure that we open our schools responsibly and safely , " he said . 
Facts First : While children are , on the whole , less likely to get seriously ill or die from the coronavirus than adults are , they are certainly not " immune ; " children get infected , transmit the virus , and do sometimes get seriously ill or die . 
Meadows comments came after Facebook on Wednesday said it had removed a post from Trump 's page which contained a clip of him making the false claim on Fox News . 
" This video includes false claims that a group of people is immune from Covid 19 which is a violation of our policies around harmful Covid misinformation , " Facebook spokesperson Andy Stone said in a statement Wednesday evening . 
While this is not the first time Facebook has removed content from the President 's page , it is the first time a removal has been due to its Covid 19 misinformation rules , Facebook said . 
