Austin Mayor Steve Adler has said that he " regrets " traveling to Mexico in early November as he was urging people to be cautious about the spread of Covid 19 . 
In a video posted on You Tube , Adler says a " small , mostly family " group made the trip after his daughter 's " small " wedding . 
" I want you to know that I regret that travel . 
I would not travel now . 
I did not over Thanksgiving , and I wo not over Christmas , and no one should . 
Everyone should be avoiding non essential travel now because we are in the orange area , " he says . 
According to the City of Austin website , orange is demarcated as Stage 4 on the Austin Public Health ( APH ) color coded chart . 
The risk based guidelines set out five stages of risk , from the lowest threat , Stage 1 , through the most serious , Stage 5 . 
In the video message , Adler continued : " Now , I fear that the travel that I did , which took place during a safer period , followed the color coded rules , could lead to some taking riskier behavior now . " 
At the time , Austin was under Stage 3 health recommendations , which meant people were advised to avoid social gatherings greater than 10 people , but there were no restrictions or recommendations made on avoiding non essential travel , according to APH . 
" I know that others have chosen not to travel under the same circumstances , and I know that in my position , I need to send a clearer message . 
I 'm sorry I took that trip . 
It was a lapse in judgment , and I want you to know that I apologize . " 
Adler ’s travels came to light in an article in the Austin American Statesman on Wednesday . 
It pointed out that a video Adler posted to Facebook on November 9 was taken during his stay in Cabo San Lucas , Mexico . 
In that video , he talked about Covid 19 trends in Austin , saying : " The thrust of the most important message is trying to get out to the community right now is that our numbers are increasing , and everybody has to be aware of that , and we need to stay home if you can . 
Do everything you can to try to keep the numbers down . 
This is not the time to relax . " 
