The World Health Organization has raised alarm about the risk of using antibiotics to treat Covid 19 , fueling a rise in antimicrobial resistance around the world . 
Antimicrobial resistance occurs when microorganisms such as bacteria or viruses evolve in a way that makes them no longer affected by antibiotics or other medicines -- leading to infections that can no longer be treated with the medications commonly used today . 
The overuse of antibiotics , or using them unnecessarily , can lead to harmful antimicrobial resistance . 
WHO noted in a news release on Monday that new global data shows that bacterial infections across nations already are increasingly resistant to the medications used to the treat them -- and warned that the use of antibiotics during the coronavirus pandemic could drive this trend even more . 
WHO last week released clinical guidance for doctors not to use antibiotic therapy or prophylaxis among patients with mild or moderate Covid 19 unless there is a clear clinical indication to do so . 
" In the current Clinical Management of COVID 19 , Interim Guidance , WHO has outlined the appropriate use of antibiotic therapy for medical professionals to treat patients . 
Therefore , both tackling antimicrobial resistance , while also saving lives , " Tedros said . 
Tedros added that a " record number " of countries are continuing to monitor and report cases of antimicrobial resistance , and " as we gather more evidence , it ’s clear that the world is losing its ability to use critically important antimicrobial medicines all over the world . " 
Additionally , using antibiotics appropriately can become a complex balancing act . 
" On the demand side , in some countries there is an overuse of antibiotics and antimicrobial agents in both humans and animals . 
However , in many low - and middle income countries these lifesaving medicines are out of reach for those that need them , leading to needless suffering and death , " Tedros said . 
" On the supply side , there is essentially very little market incentive to developing new antibiotics and antimicrobial agents , which has led to multiple market failures of very promising tools in the past few years , " Tedros said . 
" As well as finding new models to incentivize sustainable innovation , as seen with the Covid 19 Solidarity Trial , we must find ways to accelerate viable candidates . " 
