Covid 19 cases are increasing rapidly in parts of Latin America . 
Yet , some countries in the region now are easing movement restrictions and moderately reopening their economies while others stand firm . 
On Tuesday , WHO director for the Americas , Dr . Carissa Etienne , warned about epidemiological curves in the region sharply rising , and urged governments to " not open too fast , " or " risk a resurgence of Covid 19 that could erase the advantage gained over the past few months . " 
Here 's a look at some countries that are standing firm on restrictions : Argentina : Continues on mandatory lockdown until June 7 . 
Chile : The country 's main cities remain under quarantine . 
Chile never declared a full quarantine . 
Cuba , El Salvador , Haiti and Nicaragua have not and are not announcing any easing of restrictions yet . 
And here are how some countries are easing restrictions : Bolivia : Some districts across the country started a " dynamic quarantine " on Monday , allowing citizens to go out near their homes during specific times for weekdays and weekends . 
Religious services are also allowed with a maximum 30 % capacity . 
Industries such as agriculture , mining , lumber , and construction can now resume their activities and domestic flights will resume on June 3 . 
Brazil : Parts of Brazil have begun reopening nonessential businesses and activities , such as churches , car shops , furniture and decoration stores . 
In the state of São Paulo , shopping malls , commerce , offices and real estate reopened on Monday . 
However , quarantine in the city of São Paulo — which is inside the state — has been extended until June 15 . 
In the state of Rio de Janeiro , some restrictions were lifted on Tuesday , allowing individuals to exercise on the city 's promenade and to swim in the ocean . 
Salvador , Recife , Fortaleza and Manaus have also lifted some of the restrictions . 
Colombia : A gradual reopening started on Monday for hairdressers , shopping malls , museums , libraries and real estate . 
Outdoor exercise is also allowed for people over 70 and children over 6 three times a week , 30 minutes per day . 
Those between 18 and 69 years old can exercise outdoors for two hours every day . 
Costa Rica : The country entered phase 2 of reopening procedures on Monday , allowing national parks , museums and restaurants to operate with up to 50 % capacity . 
Hotels can also reopen up to 50 % capacity . 
Dominican Republic : " Covidianidad " ( COVID 19 life ) , a reopening measure will start on Wednesday . 
Churches will be allowed to host services on Sundays , small companies can resume work and big companies can resume activities with 50 % of the staff . 
Businesses will be allowed to open in shopping malls and private passenger transport will also be allowed . 
Ecuador : Airports in Quito and Guayaquil are resuming local and international flights at only 30 % of the regular flight frequency . 
The government has reduced the stay at home number of hours ordered , while the use of masks is mandatory . 
Restaurants can reopen in most cities with 30 % maximum capacity . 
The strict quarantine in Quito will be relaxed starting Wednesday . 
Guatemala : The country begins phase one of its reopening by allowing people to be outside for a period of 13 hours a day . 
Honduras : Companies enter phase zero of preparation for reopening on June 8 . 
Mexico : On Monday , some industries in parts of Mexico , such as mining , construction , auto parts , and tourism were allowed to reopen as part of the country 's " new normal " reopening measures . 
Panama : On Monday , the country entered phase two of the " new normality . " 
Public construction and mining can resume , and places of worship , sporting and social areas , can reopen with a maximum 25 % occupancy . 
Paraguay : The country remains in phase two until June 11 . 
Civil construction and corporate offices have resumed activities . 
Cultural and sporting events have resumed without audiences and some shops have also reopened . 
Peru : The country enters phase two of reopening measures , allowing hairdressers , clothing , shoe and book stores to reopen . 
Specialty health services , dentists , fertility clinics , veterinaries , food delivery , IT companies , electrical services , carpentry , laundry , and repair services , are also ok to reopen . 
Uruguay : The country continues to be praised by its virus prevention strategy and low number of cases ; as it began easing restrictions in early May . 
On Monday , at least 403 schools resumed their activities , in addition to special ed schools and universities , except in capital city of Montevideo . 
Venezuela : The government announced a " flexibilization " of the restriction measures for five days , followed by a new 10 day quarantine . 
Municipalities bordering Colombia and Brazil , as well as Maracaibo , San Francisco and Zulia , are not included . 
During this five day reopening , banks , doctors ’ offices , dentists , the construction sector , blacksmithing and hairdressers , among other businesses , can resume operations during specified times of the day . 
