We 're just four days away from Thanksgiving , and coronavirus cases are rising across the country . 
The US surpassed 12 million cases of the virus yesterday — and nearly a quarter of those cases were recorded in November . 
As Americans begin to prepare for the holiday , here 's the latest on the pandemic : Staggering Covid 19 numbers : Saturday was the 19th day in a row that the US reported over 100,000 new cases , according to Johns Hopkins . 
The spring and summer peak records of new cases did not exceed 60,000 . 
Long lines at food banks : With less than a week until Thanksgiving , the economic fallout from the coronavirus pandemic is forcing some Americans to go to food banks for the first time . 
At a food drive in De Kalb County , Georgia , people lined up at 5:30 a.m . ET yesterday for an event that was not supposed to start until 10 a.m . , CNN ’s Natasha Chen reported . 
Meanwhile , at the First Unitarian Church in Los Angeles , volunteers are working to ensure residents do not go hungry this Thanksgiving . 
They expected about 1,000 people to line up . 
If you are facing food insecurity today , learn how to get help here . 
Experts urge Americans to skip travel this holiday : The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention this week urged against Thanksgiving holiday travel . 
The nation 's top health experts are urging Americans to alter their holiday plans this year , too : White House coronavirus task force coordinator Dr . Deborah Birx said Americans should limit indoor gatherings to immediate households this Thanksgiving . 
And Dr . Anthony Fauci said he 'll be having a Thanksgiving Zoom call with his three daughters . 
The good news ? 
Experts say promising vaccines are on the horizon . 
On Friday , Pfizer and Bio NTech submitted an application to the US Food and Drug Administration for emergency use authorization for their Covid 19 vaccine candidate . 
Earlier this week , Pfizer said a final analysis of the Phase 3 trial of the vaccine showed it was 95 % effective in preventing infections , even in older adults , and caused no serious safety concerns . 
