The UK 's coronavirus crisis has reignited one of the country 's most bitter political debates : Can the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland survive as a union of four nations ? 
On Sunday night , Prime Minister Boris Johnson addressed the country from 10 Downing Street in a recorded message , announcing his plan for the UK to emerge from lockdown . 
He called on millions of people to return to work , and gave a rough outline of when schools and shops might reopen over the comings months . 
He also shifted his government 's core message from the simple " Stay Home , Protect the NHS , Save Lives " to the more ambiguous " Stay Alert , Control the Virus , Save Lives . " 
But before Johnson 's message was even broadcast , Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon delivered her own address . 
In doing so , she revealed the uncomfortable reality that Johnson has little practical power over the people living in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . 
Since the late 1990s , Westminster has ceded much power to legislative bodies in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , allowing devolved governments to set domestic policy in areas such as health and education . 
So it is little surprise that Sturgeon was confused when Johnson began talking about the opening of schools , among other things , on Sunday night . 
" Discussing schools , for example , he used year group terms that do not even make sense in Scotland . 
It was not at all clear in the statement what guidance applied to the whole UK and what applied to England specifically , " says Nicola Mc Ewen , professor of territorial politics at the University of Edinburgh . 
Sources inside Downing Street have told CNN that Johnson himself thought the message was confusing . 
" Filming was a total nightmare . 
He was stopping and starting , asking to change bits , complaining about the length , saying it was all too complex , " said one government source who was not permitted to speak on the record . 
Read the full analysis : 
