This might be the most obvious thing in the world , but parents need to come to grips with the fact that their kids probably are not going to be in classrooms this fall . 
There will be exceptions , sure , in places where schools do open for normal hours or something close to it . 
There will be kids who go part time ( this is becoming known as the " hybrid " option ) . 
But it 's becoming clear that a large portion of the country 's kids wo not be in class and parents need to start planning for that if they have not already . 
Trump did not mention his recent demand that US schools open this fall , Covid be damned , at his first briefing on the coronavirus since April . 
But he said Wednesday that he " would like to see the schools open 100 % " — and then immediately pivoted to the economy , which is why he wants schools to reopen . 
As the Covid 19 surge continues , schools continue to announce plans for online only learning this fall . 
On Tuesday , it was Fairfax and Loudoun counties in Virginia and Montgomery County in Maryland that did an abrupt and simultaneous about face to say public school students would not be brought back in person . 
Together those comprise a major chunk of the DC suburbs . 
Kids in the nation 's capital wo not know until July 31 if the city will offer any kind of in person education this fall or whether it will be online . 
On Wednesday , it was Clark County in Nevada reversing course from a hybrid model to distance learning . 
It was Seattle , too . 
In Kansas , the state board of education , split down the middle , blocked the governor 's attempt to go online only to start the year , an exception proving the new rule . 
Last week , it was California , where Democratic Gov . 
Gavin Newsom declared schools could not offer in person instruction until they met certain Covid criteria . 
Right now that ban applies to 90 % of the state 's kids . 
There may not be an exhaustive database of the country 's 13,000 school district plans , but the snapshot at Education Week is pretty darn good ( and maddening to read ) . 
It shows five of the nation 's 10 largest districts will be distance learning this fall , which begins next month for most kids . 
Or not . 
Some districts do not have a start date . 
Others are delaying into September . 
New York City 's mayor has pledged to implement a hybrid model , but details are still in flux and the state 's governor must sign off . 
He wo not do that until August . 
Read the full analysis : 
