The United States has done about 51.7 million Covid 19 tests and has been performing an average of about 770,000 tests per day recently , according to Admiral Dr . Brett Giroir , the assistant secretary for health for the US Department of Health and Human Services . 
Currently there is a national positivity rate of 9.08 % over the past seven days , he said during a briefing with reporters on Thursday . 
" We ’re all very concerned about the outbreaks which are occurring across the country , " Giroir said , adding they are particularly concerned about California , Arizona , Texas and Florida . 
But , Giroir said public health measures are starting to make a difference . 
" We are making progress , " Giroir said . 
The positivity rate is starting to level off , he said , and in some cases , starting to drop . 
The seven day rolling averages of cases is starting to turn downward , he said . 
Giroir said face masks , physical distancing and good hand hygiene is important , especially in the hotspots that are seeing a surge in cases . 
The hotspots need to have 90 % or more of people wearing masks , he said . 
That , combined with closing bars and indoor dining , is " essentially the equivalent to shutting down the entire economy . " 
The Covid 19 response team in the past two weeks has gone to 19 locations . 
The government is also sending teams to help with testing at nursing homes and opening up a surge testing site in Miami , Giroir said . 
On testing : Giroir said the government wants to reduce test turnaround time as much as possible and pooled testing could help improve the efficiency by 20 % or 30 % in labs . 
The government will prioritize certain areas as well . 
It will be putting point of care testing in nursing homes that will improve the turnaround time there and better protect those vulnerable populations . 
There are 654 point of care testing machines in nursing homes currently . 
Over the next two to three weeks , the government will send out an additional 1,700 . 
Giroir also said that his department is working with manufacturers to better understand their production schedules for August . 
He expects about 51 million tests will be available , half of which will be used for point of care testing . 
In September , there should be 65 million tests . 
Giroir said some of the other testing supplies will remain " tight " as long as there is infinite demand . 
