A set of court filings this week has provided a picture of what it 's like for inmates inside a federal prison in New Jersey as the fear of the spread of coronavirus grows . 
The inmate 's experiences this week describe how prisons could be a petri dish for the virus . 
James Davis , a 69 year old serving a 10 year prison term for white collar fraud in Pennsylvania , asked on Tuesday to be released from prison because of the potential threat to his health . 
Davis highlighted for the appeals court how much he 's in contact with more than 100 other inmates inside the federal prison in Fort Dix , New Jersey , and how the prison has lacked providing cleaning products and soap . 
The court denied Davis ' release on Friday , noting he could ask again if he tests positive for novel coronavirus . 
Davis ' lawyer told the court that conditions in the federal prison , his age and history of asthma , heart problems , high blood pressure and other issues put him at " severe risk of death from the coronavirus pandemic . " 
In a court filing on Tuesday , Davis ' team described the situation within the low security prison which included inmates sitting together for meals and sharing a bathroom and common spaces . 
The filing also claimed inmates are not given soap or cleaning products . 
Prosecutors countered that Davis should not be released because he 's not in any unique circumstance compared to others . 
They also explained to the court that " the Bureau of Prisons is taking aggressive steps to mitigate risk from Covid 19 . " 
What we know : The Bureau of Prisons is screening new inmates for symptoms and may screen staff . 
Prisons have also barred visitors and limited the movements of inmates , prosecutors wrote . 
The Bureau of Prisons says it has no confirmed cases of the virus among inmates or staff , though a staff member in Texas is being tested and one in New Hampshire has a presumptive diagnosis based on flu like symptoms . 
Davis has been in prison since May 2019 . 
