A nurse from the Central Hospital of Wuhan tells CNN at least a dozen medical staff from the facility are infected with the Wuhan coronavirus . 
" Some are being given emergency treatment . 
Those who have milder symptoms have been sent home with medication , " the nurse , who spoke on the condition of anonymity told CNN Sunday . 
The nurse said she has also contracted the virus and that her symptoms were relatively mild . 
She was discharged and told to isolate herself while recuperating at home . 
The nurse said she is more than happy to be out of the hospital where she believes the virus is endemic . 
" The concentration of the virus in the hospital is so great , " the nurse said via the Chinese instant messaging app We Chat . 
Her account comes as Beijing said it would deploy another 1,600 medical professionals to Wuhan to help the city cope with the growing number of coronavirus patients , Chinese Health Minister Ma Xiaowei said in a rare Sunday news conference . 
Another 1,000 workers are on standby , Ma said . 
Authorities acknowledged that Wuhan , a city 11 million people and ground zero of the outbreak , and much of Hubei province are facing manpower and medical supply shortages . 
Healthcare workers in Wuhan , including four who spoke to CNN on the phone , have complained of being overstretched and lacking resources to combat the crisis . 
" In terms of resources , the whole of Wuhan is lacking , " one Wuhan based healthcare worker told CNN by phone . 
The person said they were looking for more protective clothing , protective goggles and masks . 
At the news conference Sunday , Wang Jiangping , the vice minister of of industry and information technology , said Hubei needs about 100,000 protective medical suits per day -- but the 40 factories across the country making them only produce 30,000 daily . 
Wang said authorities are now trying to get factories to resume production -- most would have closed for the Lunar New Year holiday -- and requisition factories that make the suits for export . 
