Hong Kong on Tuesday announced that all classes in schools will be further suspended until at least April 19 to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus . 
Many students in the semiautonomous Chinese city have not been to school since before the Lunar New Year Holiday , which began on January 22 , though they are continuing their studies via online learning . 
The announcement came after health officials reported two new coronavirus cases in the city , bringing the total to 81 , including two deaths . 
The two new cases involved a man and a woman , both aged 57 , who recently returned from the Diamond Princess cruise ship that was quarantined for two weeks in Japan . 
Treble hit for economy : The coronavirus outbreak that originated across the border in mainland China has taken its toll on Hong Kong , coming after months of increasingly violent anti government protests and a US China trade war that pushed the city into a recession last year for the first time in a decade . 
The virus has hit the tourism and restaurant sector hard , and caused shops , theme parks , cultural attractions and other hotspots to close . 
The government has asked civil servants to work from home and urged private companies to do the same with their employees . 
Airlines under pressure : Hong Kong is also a major regional and international transport hub , especially for Japan and South Korea -- two countries that have seen their own outbreaks of the virus . 
Hong Kong carrier Cathay Pacific has asked its 27,000 employees to take three weeks of unpaid leave , citing a " significant " drop in demand for flights caused by the virus . 
Living at close quarters : The city is home to around 7.5 million people , with much of the population living in tiny apartments stacked on top of one another in giant high rises -- presenting a possible spreading risk . 
Economic woes aside , the extended school closures show the government is trying to make sure Hong Kong 's outbreak does not get to the level seen in Japan or South Korea . 
