Thousands of people are facing the prospect of spending Christmas isolating at home as Australia 's biggest city , Sydney , battles to contain a Covid 19 outbreak . 
New South Wales -- the state that 's home to Sydney -- has brought in tough rules to control a cluster which has now grown to 90 cases . 
Those rules include asking contacts of coronavirus cases to self isolate . 
The spokesperson said that close contacts of confirmed cases must continue to self isolate for 14 days since their exposure -- even if they receive a negative test result . 
According to the spokesperson , that 's because a person can test positive up to two weeks after exposure . 
" NSW Health would like to sincerely thank everyone who is doing their part to keep their loved ones and the wider community safe . 
We appreciate it is difficult for people , especially at this time of year , " the spokesperson said . 
Tough approach : The self isolating rules are not the only steps NSW authorities are taking to curb the virus ' spread -- and maybe even save Christmas . 
The Northern Beaches municipality -- with a population of just over 250,000 -- is under lockdown until Wednesday night in an attempt to prevent new cases . 
The state has also rolled out record numbers of tests -- on Monday , 44,466 new tests were carried out , and only eight new locally transmitted cases were found . 
Seven of the eight new local cases are linked to the Sydney cluster , NSW Health said Tuesday , and the eighth is still under investigation . 
Where the cluster came from : NSW health minister Brad Hazzard said Monday that " patient zero " for the Avalon Cluster is likely to have been a passenger who flew to Sydney from Los Angeles on December 1 . 
The outbreak ended a run of around two weeks with no community transmission in Sydney , which has reported a total of 4,600 Covid 19 cases since the pandemic began . 
Australia has imposed strict border rules , preventing foreigners besides those traveling from New Zealand from entering the country , and requiring international arrivals to quarantine in a state facility for two weeks at their own cost . 
