The numbers : There have now been more reported cases of the novel coronavirus outside of mainland China than inside , according to figures from the World Health Organization and public health agencies tracked by CNN . 
The coronavirus has killed more than 6,400 worldwide , and infected over 169,000 , according to an estimate from Johns Hopkins University , which is tracking cases reported by the WHO and additional sources . 
China economy : The People 's Bank of China has pumped 100 billion yuan ( $ 14.3 billion ) into the financial system by offering one year medium term lending facility ( MLF ) loans to banks . 
It comes as fresh data from China today showed the economy has been hit harder than expected by the coronavirus outbreak . 
South Korea on guard : New coronavirus infections are showing a continuous slowdown but Kim Ganglip , deputy head of the Central Disaster Relief Headquarters , said people should continue to keep their guards up . 
South Korea also announced that it has expanded special immigration measures for people arriving from all of Europe . 
Los Angeles restrictions : From midnight Sunday , all bars , nightclubs and restaurants will be closed in LA until March 31 , the city 's mayor Eric Garcetti announced in a public address . 
Jack Ma sends help : The Chinese entrepreneur and founder of e commerce giant Alibaba used his first tweet to post a photo of a massive donation of face masks and coronavirus testing kits . 
The donated goods are on their way to the US , Ma said on Twitter , courtesy of the Jack Ma Foundation . 
Disney closures : All Disney stores in North America will close from March 17 and all Disney owned and operated locations at Downtown Disney in Anaheim and Disney Springs in Orlando will be closed on March 17 , Disney Parks , Experiences and Products said . 
Peace Corps suspension : The US Peace Corps has decided to temporarily suspend all operations around the world and evacuate its volunteers as the coronavirus pandemic spreads . 
