The numbers : Johns Hopkins University , which is tracking cases reported by the World Health Organization and additional sources , puts the total number of cases worldwide at more than 215,000 , with at least 8,700 deaths . 
Relief packages : President Donald Trump signed a coronavirus relief package that includes provisions for free testing for Covid 19 and paid emergency leave . 
In Canada , Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced an $ 82 billion Covid 19 economic aid package . 
Flight routes suspended : Australian airline Qantas and its subsidiary Jetstar will suspend scheduled international flights from late March until at least the end of May . Air Canada will gradually suspend the majority of its international and US trans border flights by March 31 . 
Ryanair said it expects that " most if not all " its flights will be grounded by March 24 . 
There were 12,094 flight cancellations worldwide on Wednesday . 
Undetected infections : Mild , asymptomatic or otherwise unrecognized infections may have driven the rapid spread of the novel coronavirus in the outbreak ’s earliest days , according to modeling published in the journal Science . 
Italy 's biggest single day jump : The number of coronavirus cases increased by 4,207 in 24 hours , bringing the total to 35,713 . 
The total number of deaths now stands at 2,978 . 
Education disrupted : Coronavirus is impacting the education of more than 849 million children around the world , according to UNESCO . 
Meanwhile , schools are expected to close across the UK on Friday as coronavirus cases rose to 2,626 , with 104 deaths . 
Northern Ireland ’s schools will close starting Monday and will potentially remain closed until the summer holidays . 
Situation in US : There are at least 8,525 cases of novel coronavirus across all 50 states and 145 people have died . 
President Trump says he sees the country on a wartime footing and himself as a " wartime president " , and that he will be invoking the Defense Production Act . 
Further border and travel restrictions : Singapore is to implement a 14 day mandatory quarantine for all inbound travelers ; 
Israel has barred all foreign nationals from entering the country ; the Jordanian Armed Forces said that all of Jordan ’s governorates will be completely sealed ; 
Portugal has declared a state of emergency ; 
Brazil has partially closed its border with Venezuela ; and Nigeria has banned entry for people from 13 countries . 
