More than 2,000 people have now died from the novel coronavirus , the vast majority of them in mainland China . 
China 's Health Commission announced 136 new deaths since Monday , bringing the countrywide toll to 2,004 . 
Over 75,000 people have been infected globally . 
Here 's the latest : Cases pass 1,000 outside China : More than 1,000 people have now been infected with the virus outside mainland China . 
Japan , Singapore and South Korea have reported a steady rise in cases , with the Korean Centers for Disease Control confirming 20 new infections today , bringing the country 's total to 51 . 
Second death in Hong Kong : A 70 year old man became the second fatality of the coronavirus in the semiautonomous Chinese financial hub of Hong Kong today . 
He was diagnosed on February 14 , and had been staying in Princess Margaret Hospital . 
The city now has 62 cases of the virus and two deaths recorded . 
Cruise ship disembarks : After weeks under quarantine in Japan , the passengers of the Diamond Princess finally began to disembark today . 
Video from the scene showed a steady stream of people leaving the cruise ship , before getting into taxis and cars to begin their journey home . 
Some of their fellow passengers were not so lucky -- more than 500 have been diagnosed with the virus . 
Quarantine questioned : As the cruise passengers depart , questions are being raised over how well Japan handled the quarantine . 
The US embassy in Tokyo said in a statement Wednesday that there was still a " high risk " of exposure and so no one was allowed to return to the US from the ship for a further 14 days . 
Canada evacuation : A chartered airplane that will evacuate Canadian citizens from the Diamond Princess is on its way , according to Global Affairs Canada . 
The flight is expected to depart Tokyo Haneda Airport on Thursday . 
Westerdam relief : Cambodian health authorities announced today that 781 of the passengers from the Westerdam cruise ship had tested negative for the novel coronavirus . 
It will be a relief for the more than 1,500 passengers and crew remaining in Cambodia . 
They were all preparing to leave when one former passenger tested positive for the virus in Malaysia . 
Positive spin : Chinese state media is pushing the message that the worst of the crisis is over . 
In a phone call with the UK prime minister Tuesday , Chinese President Xi Jinping said there was " visible progress . " 
According to state news agency Xinhua , Xi said that the epidemic had now reached a " crucial time . " 
Vaccine in the works : A vaccine for the novel coronavirus could take 12 to 18 months , WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said Tuesday during a news briefing . 
But a vaccine is preparing for " the worst situation , " he said , and for now , long term preparation needs to be balanced with immediate public health solutions that contain the virus and keep the fatality rate low . 
