On a caucus call this morning , two top Democratic leaders — House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer and House Majority Whip Jim Clyburn — tell their members the US House of Representatives wo not adjourn for the year until a Covid 19 relief bill is passed , a source on the call tells CNN . 
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi did not give much of a readout on the state of talks , this source said . 
Remember : There are three separate attempts happening right now on Covid relief and all of them — at least at this point — are a long shot . 
The bipartisan framework : These talks between Republican Sens . 
Lisa Murkowski , Susan Collins , Bill Cassidy and Mitt Romney alongside Democratic Sens . 
Joe Manchin , Mark Warner and Jeanne Shaheen and Angus King , an independent who caucuses with the Democrats , have been going on for weeks and were born out of a frustration that nothing was getting done . 
Eventually , a group of House members from the Problem Solver 's Caucus got engaged making the effort bicameral . 
But , the $ 908 billion framework released Tuesday is just a starting point . 
Mc Connell 's plan : Senate majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell released his own new economic relief proposal Tuesday , a bill he has been working on closely with the White House , House Republican Leader Kevin Mc Carthy and Mnuchin . 
The bill includes many of the same provisions from the earlier , targeted $ 500 billion proposal that failed along party lines . 
It 's not expected to win support of Democrats now . 
The Democratic leadership offer to Mc Connell : While substantive discussions between Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi , Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer , Mc Connell and Mc Carthy have not occurred still , Democrats did quietly send an offer to Republican leaders Monday evening . 
The proposal was a non starter in part because it did not include the language on liability protections , a red line for Mc Connell . 
The existence of the offer became public after Mc Connell alluded to it during his news conference . 
