Oklahoma State University football coach Mike Gundy has apologized for comments he made during a teleconference this week about the national response to the Covid 19 pandemic . 
" I have been made aware that comments from my press conference have offended some , " Gundy said in a statement issued on Saturday . 
" It was never my intention to offend anyone and I apologize . 
My first priority is and will always be the student athletes and doing what is best for the program and the university . " 
Gundy has come under criticism since a Tuesday conference call with reporters where he said he hoped to have the team return to the on campus football facilities on 1 May , in defiance of federal social distancing guidelines . 
He said the the media has been overly negative in its coverage of what he called the " Chinese virus and added that if one of his players or coaches were to test positive after then , they would be " quarantined just like we do people that get the flu " . 
" We get people that get the flu during the season , we quarantine them , we treat them , we make sure they ’re healthy , we bring ‘ em back , " Gundy said . 
" It would be the same thing here , but at some point , we ’ve got to go back to work . 
We ’ve got to get these guys back in here . ... 
From what I read , the healthy people can fight this , the antibodies make it better . 
They ’re doing some blood transplants now with the people that have already gotten the disease , that have gotten over it that have the antibodies that can fight it . 
There ’s a lot of people who can figure this out . 
May 1 ’s our goal . 
Do not know if it will happen . 
Players will come in after that . " 
The remarks prompted a swift statement from the university , which said : " We will adhere to the advice of public health experts who are making informed decisions in the best interest of the citizens of our nation and state based on sound scientific data . " 
It ’s not the first time Gundy , whose annual salary is $ 5.13m , has whipped up controversy over his right wing views . 
But USA Today ’s Dan Wolken made a salient point in a Wednesday op ed that Gundy ’s political ideology is immaterial : Hey , according to " Dr . Gundy , " what ’s the harm in 18 - , 19 - , 20 - , 21 year olds possibly getting exposed to coronavirus ? 
If they ’re healthy , it ’s all good , right ? 
At any rate , we ’ve got to get moving , Gundy suggested , because paying salaries and " continuing the economy in this state " relies on the bodies of unpaid amateurs and people will " feel better " watching football on TV . 
Herd immunity , right ? 
That ’s actually what Dr . Gundy was getting at . 
In fact , he referred to players as " the herd of healthy people " who can fight the virus , even though that is , uh , not exactly the way any of this works . 
None of this should be a surprise . 
Gundy has been edging toward the cliff of absurdity for a while now . 
In November 2018 , he blamed " liberalism " for players transferring , saying " I ’m a firm believer in the snowflake . " 
He acknowledged Tuesday he ’s getting a lot of his information these days from the ultra conservative One America News Network , an outlet he described as objective and non political despite its history of pushing debunked right wing conspiracy theories related to the murder of Seth Rich , and Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting survivor David Hogg . 
But this is not really about Gundy ’s political ideology or his sources of information . 
It ’s about him saying the quiet part out loud regarding how many college coaches view their players . 
