The US Food and Drug Administration might not complete its review of Pfizer ’s Covid 19 vaccine until Christmas , according to the head of the federal network coordinating Covid 19 vaccine clinical trials . 
Pfizer announced Monday that early data shows its vaccine is more than 90 % effective . 
The drug giant says it could apply to the FDA for emergency use authorization soon after safety data on the vaccine is gathered next week . 
Dr . Larry Corey , who runs the Covid 19 Prevention Network , which is funded by the National Institutes of Health , said he thought it would then take several weeks for the FDA to finish reviewing the vaccine ’s safety and efficacy data , as well as information about its manufacturing . 
Alex Azar , the secretary of Health and Human Services , has said the process of getting FDA authorization will take several weeks , while Dr . Anthony Fauci says vaccinations will likely start a bit before Christmas . 
Corey pointed out that it took more than four weeks for the FDA to consider an application by Eli Lilly and Co for its antibody therapy . 
Lilly applied to the FDA for emergency use authorization on October 7 and received it on November 9 . 
Corey believes it will take about 10 days for the FDA to review Pfizer ’s clinical trial data . 
The agency also needs to review Pfizer ’s manufacturing data . 
If approved , Pfizer ’s vaccine would first be given to priority groups such as health care workers , the elderly , and those with underlying health conditions that make them more vulnerable to Covid 19 complications . 
Fauci told CNN on Tuesday that the US " likely will be able to start dispensing vaccines in December . " 
He also told Australia ’s ABC network that " vaccinations will start in December , very likely some time a bit before the Christmas holidays . " 
Fauci is director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , which created the Covid 19 Prevention Network last summer . 
Azar said Monday that the process of getting authorization for Pfizer ’s vaccine would be " in the several week time period . " 
