Children aged five to 11 could return to school from Monday 1 June as part of government plans to gradually ease lockdown measures , the Sunday Telegraph has reported . 
Boris Johnson is to reveal the UK government ’s plans to edge the country back to normal in an address next Sunday , according to the paper . 
It cited plans to ask companies to routinely test asymptomatic staff to isolate those who are infected and allow workplaces to reopen . 
Whitehall sources told the newspaper that pupils from Year ’s 10 and 12 would form the first wave of secondary school children returning to school at a later date , so long as the current reduced infection rate holds . 
The earmarked date for return of primary schoolchildren – which will undoubtedly face questions – is said to be intended to minimise the threat to early development and help parents swiftly return to work . 
Schools have been closed for the vast majority of children since 23 March , but the children of key workers were allowed to continue going in . 
Schools in Ireland , which shares a land border with the UK , are to remain closed until September . 
The Sunday Times reports that the government will only tweak the lockdown this week , encouraging building sites to reopen , relaxing rules on outdoor activities and urging people to cover their faces on public transport . 
On Wednesday , the education secretary Gavin Williamson said schools across England would reopen in phases , with headteachers given as much notice as possible . 
The news comes as a new poll suggests that fewer than one in five of the British public believe the time is right to consider reopening schools , restaurants , pubs and stadiums . 
The prime minister ’s former business adviser Andrew Griffith wrote in the Sunday Telegraph that " every additional day the phone rings unanswered in ‘ lockdown ’ Britain is an order lost to an overseas competitor whose own economy is open for business " , as opposed to the world ’s fifth largest economy . 
TELEGRAPH : Primary schools to go back in June # Tomorrows Papers Today  
