The Spanish government has made a U turn on its updated restrictions for children and will now allow them out for walks after six weeks of confinement , starting this Sunday . 
Speaking in Parliament Wednesday , Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez announced the change in the relaxation of restrictions for children . 
Sanchez made the statement less than a day after his government insisted that kids would only be allowed limited outings to places like supermarkets , pharmacies and banks , accompanied by an adult . 
The negative response to the initial decision was immediate and loud , with people across Spain showing disapproval by banging pots and pans from windows and balconies on Tuesday evening . 
Many politicians and health professionals also swiftly criticized the rules set out on Tuesday , forcing a response from the government within hours , with Spain ’s Health Minister Salvador Illa saying those rules would be adjusted to allow " walks under specific conditions . " 
In an apparent effort to control the damage , Spain ’s Prime Minister said " this is a government that listens " and recognizes the " tremendous effort that the confinement has been for the young ones , as well as mothers and fathers , and families . " 
But he added that the " exception to this small relief , which allows the young ones to go out , does not change the most important thing – the rule of general confinement that continues in place . " 
Spain has the strictest confinement measures in Europe , and the world ’s second highest number of coronavirus cases , after the United States . 
The Socialist Party Prime Minister was accused of mishandling the coronavirus crisis in a fiery speech in Parliament by the conservative opposition leader , Pablo Casado , head of the Popular Party . 
" You are sinning from incompetence , " Casado said . 
" You do not mess with our children . 
And you do not mess with the health of Spaniards . " 
Sanchez made his announcement ahead of a vote in Parliament to extend Spain ’s state of alarm for the third time , until May 9 . 
Parliament is expected to approve the extension , which would make the lockdown order a total of eight weeks . 
The Spanish Prime Minister said " this extension is different than the others . 
It is one that will begin to de escalate the rules of confinement . " 
As Spain looks ahead to a return to normality with the number of coronavirus cases decreasing , Sanchez warned " the return to normality will be slow and gradual , because it has to be secure . " 
The country has been hard hit economically by the pandemic . 
Sanchez also emphasized the so called new normality demands that " we must talk about the health system , revitalize the pulse of our economy , and take social protection measures . 
It is essential to prioritize being in line with Europe . 
The pacts in Spain will be the pacts in Europe . 
This is the new politics . " 
