Journalist Angela Giuffrida reports from Rome that the Italian government ’s move to ban people travelling around the country during the Christmas period has been described as a " slap in the face " to families and their deeply rooted traditions . 
She reports ; 
Italy has imposed some of the harshest Christmas rules in Europe amid calls from some scientists for more sober festivities as it overcomes a severe second coronavirus wave and tries to avoid a third one . 
The rules were signed on the day Italy registered its highest daily death toll – 993 – of the pandemic . 
At more than 58,000 , the country has the most Covid related deaths in mainland Europe and health officials say the tightening of restrictions is essential to prevent the sort of catastrophe the nation faced during the first wave in the spring . 
People will be barred from travelling between regions from 20 December until 6 January except for work , health or emergency reasons . 
Furthermore , they will not be able to leave their towns on Christmas Day , St Stephen ’s Day or New Year ’s Day . 
This will prevent relatives who live in different areas from congregating on what is considered the most important occasion for family get togethers . 
" Christmas is very important for Italians , " Riccardo Ciogli said outside Gatsby Cafe in Rome ’s Esquilino district . 
" This is what we do – we get together with family , with friends , and we eat . " 
His friend Erica Salvatore , who works at the nearby federation of architects , is from the southern region of Molise , where she usually spends Christmas with her parents . 
" I will go and see them for a few days this weekend but I do not know if I ’ll be able to travel before 20 December , " she said . 
" In Italy our traditions are very important , you ca not just take them away . " 
Giulia Della Fratte , who also lives in Rome , said : " I kind of understand the ban on inter regional travel but not the one between towns . 
Rome , for example , is made up of lots of different municipalities that are maybe only 1km apart – so how will that work ? 
It ’s nonsense . " 
Read the full story here : 
