London has seen more than its share of crises . 
The 2,000 year old metropolis has endured an influenza pandemic , the Blitz and several financial meltdowns over just the past century . 
Time and again , London has come roaring back , relying on a spirit of resilience and reinvention that is being summoned once more as the British capital seeks to recover from what may be this century 's greatest upheaval : the coronavirus pandemic . 
The spread of the virus and efforts to contain it turned one of the world 's liveliest urban meccas into a virtual ghost town , driving millions of people out of the city 's center and its financial district , and bringing commerce to a sudden halt . 
Nowhere was the standstill captured more acutely than in the mainstay of London city life : the Tube . 
Underground journeys for the month of March tumbled 43 % from the 106 million recorded in February , and plunged even further in April , during the height of lockdown , to just 5.7 million . 
Social distancing rules mean the Tube can only handle up to 15 % of its normal traffic , according to London 's mayor , Sadiq Khan . 
The fallout from lockdown has been severe . 
London 's economy is expected to contract nearly 17 % this year , according to figures from the city government , a sharper drop than the 14 % decline the Bank of England expects for the United Kingdom as a whole . 
Companies in London are expected to shed some 460,000 jobs , or about 7 % of the workforce , with manufacturing , construction , retail , and accommodation and food services the hardest hit . 
Employment is not expected to fully recover until 2022 . 
With transportation severely constrained , and a potential coronavirus vaccine still many months away , the people and companies that have made London into a hub for real estate , finance , the arts , hospitality and technology are desperately trying to reinvent themselves in hopes of surviving the pandemic . 
One sign of progress : pubs , restaurants and hair salons can reopen on Saturday , provided they follow social distancing guidelines . 
Read the full story here . 
