The National Basketball Association was considering several different scenarios to keep players and fans safe as the novel coronavirus outbreak in the United States grew more severe . 
But when one of its players came down with the virus , North America 's most progressive sports league went with the nuclear option : they shut it all down . 
The NBA chose to indefinitely postpone its regular season , a decision that will almost certainly cost the league millions of dollars in revenue in the short term . 
The decision was unprecedented . 
It left league insiders shocked . 
Players appeared to have no idea it was coming . 
Outspoken Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban 's jaw literally dropped when he saw the announcement . 
Few are faulting league commissioner Adam Silver for taking such extreme measures to keep people safe , but the financial impact will be massive . 
The NBA and its teams have television contracts worth billions of dollars to air games that may no longer take place . 
Thousands of fans have purchased tickets to watch those games . 
Those revenues do not just help pay the multimillion dollar salaries for NBA players , coaches and executives – they help pay for janitors to clean arenas , the staff who sell food and concessions , and the security guards who keep fans and players safe . 
But perhaps even more importantly is what this decision means for the other big US sports leagues , and sports around the world . 
The NHL is in the middle of its regular season . 
Europe 's soccer leagues are in full swing ( save for Serie A in Italy , which is suspended while the country is on lockdown . ) Major League Baseball kicks off later this month . 
Euro 2020 is this summer . 
The Tokyo Olympics kick off in July , and then the NFL will start up again in August . 
The NBA has in recent years enjoyed a reputation as North America 's most progressive sports league and has not shied away from sacrificing profits to stand behind its values . 
Its decision to postpone games means the pressure is now on other sports leagues to follow suit , especially if the outbreak continues to increase unabated . 
If they do not , they risk appearing as if they value profits over player and fan safety . 
