President Trump announced a plan to deploy 150 million rapid coronavirus tests from Abbott to states across the nation to help with school reopening efforts . 
Trump claims the testing effort would " allow every state on a very regular basis test every teacher who needs it . " 
" I ’m pleased to report we ’re announcing our plan to distribute 150 million Abbott point of care tests in the coming weeks , " Trump said in the Rose Garden Monday . 
Trump outlined that 100 million of the tests will be sent to states and territories , 50 million tests will go to protect the most vulnerable communities , 18 million will go to nursing homes , 10 million to hospice and home health , and one million for historically black colleges and tribal nation colleges . 
The White House announced Aug . 27 that the federal government would purchase the tests but offered few details on rollout in the following days . 
Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar provided some details on the ramp up during a call with the nation ’s governors on Aug . 31 . 
" There ’s a ramp up right now . 
We certainly expect that by late October , November , we ’ll be getting into the 30-40 million per month and it will top at 48 million per month , " he said , according to audio obtained by CNN , adding that factories in Maine and Illinois are " just getting up " but " will achieve a mass of about 48 million ( tests ) within the next several months . " 
And Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said on CNBC Sept . 14 that the tests would go to schools and nursing homes . 
Adm . Brett Giroir , the administration ’s coronavirus testing czar , said Monday that governors will have flexibility regarding deployment of the Abbott Binax NOW tests , but offered some prioritization guidance . 
Giroir said that this was communicated to governors during a Monday call led by Vice President Mike Pence . 
Minutes later , Trump criticized some governors for not reopening their states quickly enough . 
" We have too many states that are locked down right now … nobody knows what the governors are doing actually , " Trump said . 
His remarks come as cases are rising over the last week in 21 states . 
CORRECTION : An earlier version of this story included the wrong number of rapid tests that will be deployed to states . 
The Trump administration plans to deploy 150 million rapid coronavirus tests . 
