President Trump is sometimes getting information that is out of context or downright wrong , Dr . Anthony Fauci said Monday . 
CNN ’s Brian Stelter asked Fauci if he 's worried that Dr . Scott Atlas is sharing misleading information with the President . 
" Well yeah , I 'm concerned that sometimes things are said that are really taken either out of context or actually incorrect , " Fauci answered . 
Fauci said he did not see it as a matter of conflict . 
" If I have an issue with someone , I 'll try and sit down with them and let them know why I differ with them and see if we can come to some sort of resolution , " Fauci said . 
" So , I mean my differences with Dr . Atlas , I 'm always willing to sit down and talk with him and see if we could resolve those differences . " 
Stelter asked if there could be legitimate disagreements about issues such as masks . 
" When it comes to a mask…I can just tell you how I feel . 
And what I feel is not very much different from what has been expressed by Dr . Deborah Birx and Dr . Robert Redfield , the director of the CDC . 
Masks are critically important in preventing the transmission and acquisition of SARS coronavirus 2 . 
The data are strong . 
There ’s no doubt about that . " 
More on this : US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Dr . Robert Redfield is concerned that Atlas , a White House coronavirus task force member , is providing Trump with misleading information about Covid 19 , a federal official told CNN . 
NBC News reported Monday that Redfield was overheard during a phone call in public on a commercial airline to say , " Everything he says is false . " 
NBC News , which heard the comment , said Redfield acknowledged after the flight from Atlanta to Washington , D.C . , that he was speaking about Dr . Scott Atlas , a neuroradiologist who joined the White House coronavirus task force in August . 
NBC said that Redfield , in a conversation with a colleague that took place on Friday , suggested Atlas is providing Trump with misleading data about the efficacy of masks , young people 's susceptibility to the coronavirus and herd immunity . 
In a statement to CNN , a CDC spokesman did not deny the conversation took place . 
In a statement sent Monday afternoon , the CDC acknowledged Redfield and Atlas have " different positions " on some issues : " The article quotes Dr . Redfield as saying " Everything he says is false " but it cannot supply the context for that statement since only one side of the private conversation being eavesdropped on was heard . 
Positions on three issues , the value of wearing a mask , youth COVID 19 infections , and where we are currently with herd immunity , are the positions that Dr . Redfield has different positions on than Dr . Atlas . 
The doctors agree on many other issues . " 
A federal health official tells CNN , more broadly , " bottomline , the story is accurate . " 
Watch more : 
