The Florida Department of Health has responded to scrutiny regarding the state ’s Covid 19 death count , which was reported by the Tampa Bay Times and said the state is following CDC guidelines . 
The Times article claimed that Florida ’s Medical Examiner Commission reported a Covid 19 death tally that was 10 % higher than the one made publicly available by the Florida Department of Health ( FLDOH . ) The newspaper further reported that the commission has not released a tally in nine days after state health department officials " intervened . " 
According to the FLDOH , Covid 19 deaths currently reported to the public include Florida residents only . 
Currently , the state is reporting more than 1,200 deaths . 
For example , if a New York resident dies from Covid 19 in Florida , New York reports the death and Florida does not . 
While Florida is not reporting the number of out of state Covid 19 deaths publicly , CNN asked the FLDOH for the number Wednesday and obtained the list via email , which includes 43 deaths from other states and other countries . 
CNN corresponded with two medical examiner offices in Florida who confirmed that medical examiners report deaths within their geographic jurisdiction and not by place of residence . 
Therefore , the state ’s county by county Covid 19 death toll and the county by county death toll reported by medical examiners will not match . 
For example , if residents of New York , New Jersey and Miami Dade county die in Broward County from Covid 19 , the Broward County medical examiner ’s office would report a death toll of three . 
In that example , the Florida Department of Health , which says it is following CDC guidelines , would record a Covid 19 death toll for Broward County of zero . 
When asked about the newspaper ’s allegation that Florida ’s Department of Health intervened with the disclosures of Covid 19 deaths by medical examiners , the FLDOH said the department had concerns about personal information being shared . 
CNN reached out to the Florida Medical Examiner 's Commission and the governor 's office and did not hear back . 
