The world is battling the coronavirus pandemic , but in South Korea , that has not stopped them holding an election . 
South Korea 's coronavirus outbreak peaked early , prompting praise for the government 's handling of the pandemic . 
The country is not in lockdown , and of the more than 10,500 confirmed cases , at least 7,400 have recovered . 
Nevertheless , the country has taken precautions . 
What 's the election for ? 
Around 44 million people are registered to vote in South Korea 's legislative election , where they will elect 300 members of the National Assembly . 
At least 26 % of registered voters cast their vote early . 
How are voters being kept safe ? 
When voters head to the polls today , they will have their temperature checked at the door . 
They 'll need to stand at least one meter apart from each other as they line up . 
Polling booths will be regularly disinfected and anyone with a temperature of more than 37.5 degrees Celsius ( 99.5 degrees Farenheit ) will have to vote in a special booth . 
About 20,000 additional workers will be dispatched to put in place the extra measures . 
What about voters who are still in quarantine ? 
Special voting booths have been set up at government run isolation centers , and those under self quarantine will be allowed to leave their house to vote after polling booths close to the public at 6 p.m . 
How did the run up to the election differ from normal ? 
Politicians still held rallies and hit the streets to meet voters , but it was definitely different from normal campaign periods , which often involve K pop style dance troupes . 
This time around , politicians wore gloves and face masks -- one even wore a face visor . 
Will turnout be lower than normal ? 
One of the big concerns with running an election during a pandemic is that people may decide not to vote as they 're afraid of getting sick . 
Statistics from the National Election Commission show that so far , turnout is actually slightly higher than it was at the last election . 
Some voters CNN talked to in the lead up said the pandemic made voting even more important . 
Read more here : 
