The Trump administration does not have to issue an emergency rule requiring employers to protect workers from the coronavirus , a federal appeals court ruled . 
The unanimous ruling by a three judge panel of the U.S . Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit declared that the Labor Department ’s workplace safety arm reasonably determined that an emergency rule " is not necessary at this time . " 
A top labour union sued the Occupational Health and Safety Administration last month seeking to compel it to issue an emergency temporary standard on the coronavirus . 
The AFL CIO said in filing the suit that tens of thousands of workers have been infected on the job through exposure to infected patients , co workers and unscreened members of the public . 
As the economy reopens and people return to work , person to person contact will increase and an already " shocking number of infections and deaths among workers will rise , " the union said . 
In its two page ruling , the appeals court said OSHA is authorized to issue an emergency temporary standard , or ETS , if it determines that employees are exposed to grave danger from a new hazard in the workplace , and that an emergency rule is needed to protect them from that danger . 
The decision not to issue an ETS " is entitled to considerable deference , ’ ’ the court said . 
" In light of the unprecedented nature of the COVID 19 pandemic , as well as the regulatory tools that the OSHA has at its disposal to ensure that employers are maintaining hazard free work environments , OSHA reasonably determined that an ETS is not necessary at this time , ’ ’ the ruling said . 
The ruling was signed by Judges Karen Le Craft Henderson , Robert Wilkins and Neomi Rao . 
Henderson and Rao were appointed by Republican presidents and Wilkins by a Democrat . 
The Labor Department said in a statement Thursday that officials were pleased at the ruling , which backed its contention that existing rules and regulations are protecting Americas workers and that an emergency temporary standard is not needed . 
" OSHA will continue to enforce the law and offer guidance to employers and employees to keep Americas workplaces safe , said the statement , issued by Loren Sweatt , a top Labor Department official who oversees OSHA , and Kate OScannlain , the department ’s top lawyer . 
OSHA ’s performance came under fire at a contentious House hearing last month , in which Democrats accused the agency of being largely invisible during the pandemic . 
Instead of an emergency standard , OSHA has relied on voluntary guidance that recommends companies erect physical barriers , enforce social distancing and install more hand sanitizing stations , among other steps . 
But the guidance is not mandatory , and Covid 19 cases have spiked at meatpacking plants , prisons , nursing homes and other workplaces deemed essential during the pandemic . 
AFL CIO President Richard Trumka said he was disappointed that three federal judges " did not deem the lives of Americas workers worthy of holding an argument or issuing a full opinion . " 
" The post it length response to the union ’s lawsuit acknowledges the unprecedented " nature of the coronavirus pandemic , " but repeats the false claim by Big Business that the Occupational Safety and Health Administration already has done what is needed to protect workers , ’ ’ Trumka said in a statement . 
More than two million Americans have been infected with Covid 19 , and more than 110,000 have died , according a count compiled by Johns Hopkins University . 
