The mayor of Tulsa , Oklahoma , G.T . Bynum , announced today three new initiatives as positive case rates climb to " an unacceptable new normal " in his city . 
Speaking at a news conference with his chief health official , Bynum did not address any link to the rise in cases and President Trump ’s June 20 rally in Tulsa . 
Dr . Bruce Dart , director of the Tulsa Health Department , also did not specifically address any potential community spread that may have resulted from the Trump rally , but did address gatherings where the purpose is to " congregate in close contact with other people " as " a potential risk for spreading Covid 19 " and advised people to wear masks and socially distance . 
As the city continues to try to balance economic and health risks , here are the initiatives announced by the governor : A new safety certification system : Bynum said this would allow local businesses and organizations to submit a safety plan , specific to their facility , to the Tulsa Health Department for approval . 
The department will either suggest improvements or approve them as " certified . " 
" Then that organization will be able to tell their clients or their congregants that they have a Tulsa Health Department certification plan , " Bynum said . 
Gatherings : Bynum said organizers putting on an event with over 500 people must develop a safety plan approved by the department to move forward . 
The requirement goes into effect on July 16 . 
Face coverings : All employees of bars and restaurants will be required to wear face coverings while they are at work . 
" This is something that we should have put in place on May 1 , " Bynum said . 
" As we go through something as unprecedented as this , we continue to see things that in retrospect we wish we had put in place . " 
Bynum has not yet issued a mandatory mask wearing order but said he would expeditiously if Dart deemed it necessary . 
The latest numbers : Dart said at least 136 new cases were reported during the week of June 21-27 . 
