The federal government must take " urgent actions " in its response to the coronavirus pandemic , according to a new report from the US Government Accountability Office . 
For example , the GAO report found medical supply shortages persist , despite efforts made by the Department of Health and Human Services and the Federal Emergency Management Agency to mitigate shortages and expand the supply chain . 
States and US territories are concerned about ongoing shortages of some Covid 19 testing materials and medical supplies , including rapid point of care tests and reagents needed for testing and nitrile gloves , an October GAO survey found . 
About one third of states that responded to the October survey said they were " greatly " or " completely " concerned about having enough vaccine related supplies to administer a potential Covid 19 vaccine . 
Another 21 states said they were " moderately concerned . " 
The GAO made recommendations to HHS and FEMA in September , but they have not been implemented . 
" In light of the surge in COVID 19 cases , along with reported shortages , including GAO ’s nationwide survey findings , GAO underscores the critical imperative for HHS and FEMA to implement GAO ’s September 2020 recommendations , " the independent agency , the investigative arm of Congress , said . 
The new report is also concerned with the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ’s changes in testing strategy and guidance , saying the CDC has not been transparent about the changes . 
The GAO report made 11 recommendations for improving the federal pandemic response . 
It recommended that the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services quickly develop a plan to respond to 27 recommendations in the Coronavirus Commission on Safety and Quality in Nursing Homes analysis , a report released on Sept . 16 . 
The GAO report also recommended the Department of Veterans Affairs develop a plan to inspect state veterans homes and " should collect timely data on COVID 19 cases and deaths in each state ’s veterans homes . " 
