A real divide has developed among the White House coronavirus task force over the issue of testing , a source close to the group told CNN . 
Several members of the task force feel that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has not handled testing well from the beginning . 
They say it is " unbelievable " that there still is not a widespread testing program available , such as antigen testing , the type of technology often referred to as a rapid flu test . 
The source also mentioned the need for " pooled testing , " a method of testing that can scale up and test much larger numbers of people . 
Testing has been an issue throughout the handling of the pandemic . 
The CDC ’s initial test , given to public health labs , did not work and resulted in a lag in getting tests out to public health departments . 
As far back as two months ago , Dr . Deborah Birx , the White House coronavirus response coordinator , said that the US needed a " breakthrough " in testing to help screen large numbers of people . 
Birx said on NBC ’s " Meet the Press " on April 26 that " we have to be able to detect antigen , rather than constantly trying to detect the actual live virus , or the viral particles itself . " 
How pooled testing works : " Pooling refers to a testing technique in which allows a lab to mix several samples together in a ' batch ' or pooled sample and then test the pooled sample with a diagnostic test . 
For example , four samples may be tested together , using only the resources needed for a single test , " Dr . Jeffrey Shuren , director of the Center for Devices and Radiological Health at the US Food and Drug Administration , said in a written statement last week . 
" If the pooled sample is negative , it can be deduced that all patients were negative . 
If the pooled sample comes back positive , then each sample needs to be tested individually to find out which was positive , " Shuren said . 
" Because samples are pooled together , ultimately fewer tests are run overall , meaning fewer testing supplies are used , and results can be returned to patients more quickly in most cases . " 
