During the first White House coronavirus task force briefing in two months , Vice President Mike Pence described an alternate reality to what is really happening in American cities across the country with respect to the coronavirus pandemic , according to a couple of health experts . 
" We ’re seeing a massive resurgence in our metropolitan areas across the southwestern part of the United States — here in Houston , Dallas , Phoenix and in Los Angeles , " Dr . Peter Hotez , dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at the Baylor College of Medicine , told CNN 's Brianna Keilar shortly after the briefing wrapped up . 
" This is a tragedy , and what 's more , it 's not presented as a tragedy — it 's presented as , ‘ We 're doing a pretty good job and now there are a couple of hotspots . ’ 
These are not ‘ hotspots ’ — these are the largest metropolitan areas in the United States , " he said . 
More on this : This first briefing since the end of April comes as cases are going up in more than half the states , with infections in some large states close to being out of control and filling hospital intensive care units . 
CNN chief medical correspondent Dr . Sanjay Gupta also said the vice president presented a picture that does not at all match the facts of what is happening with coronavirus infections in the country . 
" Despite what you heard , we are in the middle of a public health disaster . 
I know that people are going to hear different things . 
There 's a cognitive dissonance out there , but let me just start with that , " Gupta told Keilar , stressing that this public health disaster was not inevitable . 
" One of the first things that was said is all 50 states are opening safely and responsibly . 
That 's simply not true . 
I do not think there 's a single state that actually followed the opening criteria that the task force themselves actually laid out , " said Gupta . 
" They say that we have greatly expanded testing . 
We 're still probably at a 10 % of the testing that we should be doing at this point in this pandemic . 
They say we 've had 45 days to stop the spread . 
Well , Brianna as you just mentioned , we have not stopped the spread . " 
Gupta said that the country had the highest number of daily infections since this pandemic began in the last 24 hours . 
" This is a problem . 
We can spin it in all sorts of different ways . 
But the reality is that not only are things bad , they ’re as bad as they 've been right now with regard to daily new infections . " 
Hotez said the briefing missed the opportunity to present some solutions . 
" The terrible part for me was there were no ideas presented . 
They have no idea what to do , " he said . 
" There is no concrete federal plan for helping the metro areas ; there was not a single suggestion made , " he added . 
Watch more : 
