The coronavirus pandemic is slamming the vast property empire that provides Queen Elizabeth II with a significant chunk of her income . 
British taxpayers could be making up the shortfall for years to come . 
Michael Stevens , the Queen 's treasurer , confirmed in a statement on Friday that the size of the Sovereign Grant , one of the royal family 's major sources of income , wo not be affected by an expected slump in profits from the Crown Estate 's investments . 
The Sovereign Grant is a lump sum payment from the government that covers official travel , staff costs and palace expenses . 
The grant is generated from the Crown Estate , a real estate company that boasts a sprawling collection of farmlands and prime central London property . 
Most earnings from the Crown Estate go into government coffers , but 25 % are paid out by the government to the Queen in the form of the Sovereign Grant . 
Last week , the Crown Estate reported a record profit of £ 345 million ( $ 440.2 million ) for the year to March 2020 , but warned that earnings for the fiscal year to March 2021 will be " significantly down " on that amount due to the impact of the pandemic on its portfolio . 
Much of central London was turned into a ghost town earlier this year as the lockdown kept millions of workers , shoppers and tourists away . 
Activity was beginning to pick up over the summer months but new restrictions introduced this week to combat a second wave of the virus are expected to dent that recovery . 
But the Queen wo not be taking a pay cut even if income falls at the Crown Estate this year . 
The way that the grant is calculated means that she will receive her share of £ 345 million — £ 86.3 million ( $ 110 million ) — in the year to March 2022 . 
Her payout will also remain at that level in future years , even if the Crown Estate 's profit remains under pressure , because the law governing the grant does not allow it to fall in absolute terms . 
" In the event of a reduction in the Crown Estate 's profits , the Sovereign Grant is set at the same level as the previous year , " a Treasury spokesperson told CNN Business . 
" The Sovereign Grant funds the official business of the Monarchy , and does not provide a private income to any member of the royal family , " the spokesperson said . 
Read more : 
