The World Health Organization has endorsed a protocol for testing African herbal medicines as potential treatments for the coronavirus and other epidemics . 
Covid 19 has raised the issue of using traditional medicines to battle contemporary diseases , and the endorsement clearly encouraged testing with criteria similar to those used for molecules developed by labs in Asia , Europe or the Americas . 
It came months after a bid by the president of Madagascar to promote a drink based on artemisia , a plant with proven efficacy in malaria treatment , was met with widespread scorn , AFP reports . 
On Saturday , WHO experts and colleagues from two other organisations " endorsed a protocol for phase III clinical trials of herbal medicine for Covid 19 as well as a charter and terms of reference for the establishment of a data and safety monitoring board for herbal medicine clinical trials " , a statement said . 
" Phase III clinical trials are pivotal in fully assessing the safety and efficacy of a new medical product , " it noted . 
" If a traditional medicine product is found to be safe , efficacious and quality assured , WHO will recommend [ it ] for a fast tracked , large scale local manufacturing , " Prosper Tumusiime , a regional WHO director , was quoted as saying . 
" The onset of Covid 19 , like the Ebola outbreak in west Africa , has highlighted the need for strengthened health systems and accelerated research and development programmes , including on traditional medicines , " Tumusiime said . 
He did not refer specifically to the Madagascar drink Covid Organics , also called CVO , that president , Andry Rajoelina , has pitched as a cure for the virus , however . 
It has has been widely distributed in Madagascar and sold to several other countries , mainly in Africa . 
In May , WHO Africa director Matshidiso Moeti told media that African governments had committed in 2000 to taking " traditional therapies " through the same clinical trials as other medication . 
" I can understand the need , the drive to find something that can help , " Moeti said . 
" But we would very much like to encourage this scientific process in which the governments themselves made a commitment . " 
