The coronavirus outbreak is one of " nature ’s responses " to human beings ignoring the ecological crisis , said Pope Francis Wednesday . 
" We did not respond to the partial catastrophes . 
Who now speaks of the fires in Australia , or remembers that 18 months ago a boat could cross the North Pole because the glaciers had all melted ? 
Who speaks now of the floods ? " the Pope told British Catholic journalist Austen Ivereigh in an email interview published Wednesday in The Tablet and Commonwealth magazines . 
" I do not know if these are the revenge of nature , but they are certainly nature ’s responses . " 
Pope Francis also said he is recovering from his bronchitis and praying even more from his residence in the Vatican during this " time of great uncertainty . " 
Francis revealed he goes to confession every Tuesday to ask forgiveness for his own selfishness . 
" I take care of things there , " he said . 
Francis said the homeless should be quarantined in hotels and not in parking lots . 
" A photo appeared the other day of a parking lot in Las Vegas where they [ the homeless ] had been put in quarantine . 
And the hotels were empty . 
But the homeless cannot go to a hotel , " the Pope said . 
" This is the moment to see the poor , " he said , whom society often treats as " rescued animals . " 
The Pope warned against the rise of populist politicians , who he said are giving speeches reminiscent of Hitler in 1933 , and others who are focusing solely on the economy . 
" I am worried by the hypocrisy of certain political personalities who speak of facing up to the crisis , of the problem of hunger in the world , but who in the meantime manufacture weapons , " he said . 
" Today I believe we have to slow down our rate of production and consumption and to learn to understand and contemplate the natural world . " 
The Pope encouraged people at home on lockdown to find creative ways of being at home . 
" Take care of yourselves for a future that will come , " Francis said . 
