At 6 a.m . local time in Spain , many people took to the streets to run , cycle or take walks of up to one kilometer after seven weeks in confinement . 
Parks remain closed in Madrid , so runners and cyclists outside the capital 's Retiro park used the broad avenue as a racetrack , occupying lanes normally used for traffic . 
Some buses and cars had to honk to get them to move over . 
The government has insisted people stick to 2 meter or 6 foot social distancing , especially runners and cyclists who are supposed to exercise alone , but CNN observed numerous people bunched together . 
At 10:25 a.m . local time , a Madrid municipal van pulled alongside a cyclist and an officer leaned out of the window to shout : But the police did not stop to issue a fine and drove off . 
From today , people older than 14 can take one hour walks , accompanied by one person , once a day close to their homes , or do sports like riding a bike alone , within their city . 
They are allowed to do this from 6 a.m . to 10 a.m . and from 8 p.m . to 11 p.m . 
The elderly had their turn a little later , with a special timetable to avoid crowds : from 10 a.m . to 12 p.m . and from 7 p.m . to 8 p.m . Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez sent a message via Twitter on Saturday morning asking Spaniards for caution : Spain 's government moved to further ease the nation 's strict confinement rules due to coronavirus earlier this week . 
Last weekend , children under 14 were allowed to take one hour walks daily with their parents . 
The government has asked its population to wear masks if they cannot observe strict social distancing . 
Spain 's state of emergency , with the strictest confinement rules in Europe , will continue until May 9 . 
The new " relaxation " measures give most Spaniards more time outside their homes daily than they 've had since the lockdown started on March 14 , after which only short trips were allowed for food shopping and to the pharmacy . 
From Monday , May 4 , Spain will start " Phase Zero " of its transition to " new normality " as announced by Prime Minister Sánchez last week . 
Some stores will be allowed to open for a limited number of clients , by appointment only , and some restaurants will be allowed to open with limited takeaway service . 
Cases in Spain have now reached 216,582 with 1,147 new infections . 
There have been 25,100 deaths in the country with 276 more in the past day -- a slightly smaller increase than yesterday when there were 281 new deaths . 
