Social gatherings of more than six people will be illegal in England from Monday as the government seeks to curb the rise in coronavirus cases . 
Prime minister Boris Johnson will use a press conference on Wednesday to announce the change in the law after the number of daily positive Covid 19 cases in the UK rose to almost 3,000 . 
The legal limit on social gatherings will be reduced from 30 people to six . 
It will apply to gatherings indoors and outdoors – including private homes , as well as parks , pubs and restaurants . 
Gatherings of more than six people will be allowed where the household or support bubble is larger than six , or where the gathering is for work or education purposes . 
Exemptions will also apply for weddings , funerals and organised team sports in a Covid secure way . 
Johnson is expected to tell the press conference : We need to act now to stop the virus spreading . 
So we are simplifying and strengthening the rules on social contact – making them easier to understand and for the police to enforce . 
It is absolutely critical that people now abide by these rules and remember the basics – washing your hands , covering your face , keeping space from others , and getting a test if you have symptoms . 
Downing Street said chief medical officer Prof Chris Whitty , chief scientific adviser Sir Patrick Vallance and the government had jointly agreed that urgent action was needed after the rise in coronavirus cases . 
Some 2,420 new lab confirmed cases of coronavirus were recorded in Britain as of 9am on Tuesday , following the 2,988 reported in the UK on Sunday , which was the largest daily figure since May . 
The government hopes that the change to the law will make it easier for the police to identify and disperse illegal gatherings . 
Failure to comply could result in a £ 100 fine , which will double on each repeat offence up to £ 3,200 . 
Number 10 said Johnson held a virtual roundtable with police forces last week where officers expressed their desire for rules on social contact to be simplified . 
The Police Federation of England and Wales urged the government to " play its part " through a public information campaign after " so many changes in legislation " . 
The association ’s national chairman John Apter said : With the increase in confirmed Covid cases , it ’s no surprise the government has made this announcement . 
For policing , these constant changes to legislation are becoming the norm . 
The pressures on policing have increased significantly over recent months and this latest change will add to this pressure . 
My colleagues will support the public through what is going to be a very difficult time . 
At all times they will also remind people that a breach of these regulations means breaking the law . 
However , the government needs to play its part . 
With so many changes in legislation , an effective public information campaign must be a priority - as there ’s been so much confusion for the public and many people do not know exactly what the law says . 
We would urge the public to do the right thing and comply with the new rules , to help protect each other and prevent the further spread of this deadly virus . 
