The UK can expect to have a " portfolio of three or four vaccines " in use by the middle of next year , England ’s Chief Medical Officer told lawmakers on Wednesday . 
Thousands of people were vaccinated on Tuesday , the first day of the national rollout of the Pfizer/Bio NTech coronavirus vaccine . 
Asked by lawmakers when the UK regulator would decide on the Oxford Astra Zeneca vaccine , chief of the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency June Raine said she could not provide a firm date for a decision on authorization . 
Raine said regulators have " great interest " in how the two dosing regimens produced different efficacies , and if there is a scientific basis to the different immune responses . 
The Oxford Astra Zeneca vaccine showed 90 % efficacy in one dosing regimen — when the vaccine was given as a half dose , followed by a full dose at least a month later . 
It showed 62 % efficacy in a second regimen — when two full doses were given to people at least a month apart . 
On the issue revaccination , Whitty told lawmakers that the situation may arise where vulnerable people will need to be revaccinated , as it is yet unknown how long protection against the virus can last . 
" It might last for a very long time , it might last for […] nine months , I think it 's more likely to be somewhere between those two , " Whitty said . 
Asked what lessons have been learned from the pandemic , Whitty admitted that in the early stages of the pandemic , officials underestimated asymptomatic spread . 
" We drew comfort wrongly from SARS , " Whitty said , referring to the respiratory illness brought on by a coronavirus that killed more than 700 people in 2002 and 2003 . 
" In SARS , the great majority — if not all — of the transmission was from people who were symptomatic , " Whitty said . 
Whitty went on to say that the pandemic could have been managed better in the early stages if " data streams " were more complete on mask effectiveness , lockdown timings and travel quarantines . 
He said that limited testing capacity meant officials had not realized how widespread the virus had become in the UK or across Europe . 
On communicating health guidance to Britain ’s minority ethnic groups – who have suffered disproportionately from the pandemic – Whitty acknowledged that officials did not get the messaging right in the early stages , adding that social research was and still is not strong enough . 
