As confirmed coronavirus cases in the US have hit 5 million on Sunday , by far the highest of any country , the failure of the world ’s most powerful nation to contain the virus has been met with astonishment and alarm in Europe , the Associated Press reports . 
Perhaps nowhere outside the US is America ’s bungled virus response viewed with more consternation than in Italy , which was ground zero of Europe ’s epidemic . 
The Italian government was unprepared when the outbreak exploded in February , and the country still has one of the world ’s highest official death tolls at 35,000 . 
But after a strict nationwide , 10 week lockdown , vigilant tracing of new clusters and general acceptance of mask mandates and social distancing , Italy has become a model of virus containment . 
" Do not they care about their health ? , " Patrizia Antonini , a mask clad woman asked about people in the United States as she walked with friends along the banks of Lake Bracciano , north of Rome . 
" They need to take our precautions . 
[...] They need a real lockdown . " 
Much of the incredulity in Europe stems from the fact that America had the benefit of time , European experience and medical know how to treat the virus that the continent itself didnt have when the first Covid 19 patients started filling intensive care units . 
Yet , more than four months into a sustained outbreak , the US reached the 5 million mark , according to the running count kept by Johns Hopkins University . 
Health officials believe the actual number is perhaps 10 times higher , or closer to 50 million , given testing limitations and the fact that as many as 40 % of all those who are infected have no symptoms . 
" We Italians always saw America as a model , " said Massimo Franco , a columnist with daily Corriere della Sera . 
" But with this virus we ’ve discovered a country that is very fragile , with bad infrastructure and a public health system that is nonexistent . " 
Italian health minister Roberto Speranza has not shied away from criticizing the US , officially condemning as wrong the decision of the Trump administration to withhold funding from the World Health Organization and expressing amazement at president Donald Trump ’s virus response . 
After Trump finally donned a mask last month , Speranza told La7 television : " I ’m not surprised by Trump ’s behavior now ; 
Im profoundly surprised by his behavior before . " 
