A new study funded by the National Institutes of Health claims that novel coronavirus can remain on contaminated plastic and stainless surfaces for up to three days . 
The study , posted online Tuesday , has not been published yet in a peer reviewed scientific journal . 
For the study , researchers compared the " surface stability " of novel coronavirus with that of the SARS Co V 1 virus , which sparked the SARS epidemic that started in 2002 . 
The researchers found that the novel coronavirus could be detected on copper for up to four hours , on cardboard for up to 24 hours and on plastic and stainless steel for up to two to three days . 
Also , the coronavirus could linger in aerosols for up to three hours , according to the study . 
HCo V 19 — the name of the novel coronavirus — and SARS Co V 1 " exhibited similar 38 half lives in aerosols , with median estimates around 2.7 hours , " the researchers wrote in the study . 
" Both viruses show relatively long viability 39 on stainless steel and polypropylene compared to copper or cardboard : the median half life estimate for 40 HCo V 19 is around 13 hours on steel and around 16 hours on polypropylene . " 
What we know : Coronaviruses are a large group of viruses common among animals . 
In rare cases , they are what scientists call zoonotic , meaning they can be transmitted from animals to humans . 
Researchers have estimated that coronaviruses can linger on surfaces from just hours to more than a week . 
A study published last month in The Journal of Hospital Infection found that human coronaviruses , such as SARS , have been found to persist on inanimate surfaces — including metal , glass or plastic surfaces — for as long as nine days if that surface had not been disinfected . 
Dr . Stephen Redd , director of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ’s Office of Public Health Preparedness and Response , said during a Senate committee hearing last week that , depending on the type of surface , the novel coronavirus can linger on surfaces from hours to up to a day . 
