A wedding reception in Maine led to three separate Covid 19 outbreaks that infected 117 people , putting three into the hospital and killing seven more , health investigators reported Thursday . 
None of those who got seriously ill or died even went to the wedding , and many lived 100 miles away . 
It is a case study of how failure to follow social distancing and masking guidelines can have far reaching consequences , the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said in its weekly report . 
" The bride , groom , and groom ’s family ( seven persons ) traveled from California to Maine on August 6 , " the researchers wrote . 
No one quarantined . 
But the index patient , the researchers said , was a Maine resident whose symptoms began the day after the wedding . 
The wedding reception took place on August 7 and included 55 people . 
Maine guidelines allow no more than 50 people at an indoor gathering . 
Guests were seated 6-8 people per table , and remained in close contact during the event . 
While event staff conducted temperature checks and wore masks , further mitigation efforts fell by the wayside . 
" Although the facility had signs posted at the entrance instructing visitors to wear masks , guests did not comply with this requirement nor maintain a physical distance of at least six feet , and staff members did not enforce these measures , " the researcher wrote . 
Five days after the wedding , the Maine Center for Disease Control and Prevention received reports that two guests had tested positive . 
Thirty guests and vendors eventually tested positive for Covid 19 within two weeks of the reception . 
The small town where the wedding was held had not seen a single case of Covid 19 before the wedding , but afterwards , 27 citizens who had not attended the wedding tested positive , and one died . 
One guest who tested positive developed a cough , yet attended an in person school meeting , taking no precautions . 
Later , two school staff members tested positive , and school openings were delayed for two weeks while exposed staff quarantined . 
But the spread went even further afield . 
" In addition to the community outbreak , secondary and tertiary transmission led to outbreaks at a long term care facility 100 miles away and at a correctional facility approximately 200 miles away , " wrote the researchers . 
One wedding guest infected a parent who worked at the long term care facility and one guest worked at the corrections facility . 
Both continued to work while experiencing Covid 19 symptoms that included cough , fever , and a loss of taste . 
The outbreak at the corrections facility infected 82 people , most of them staff , while the outbreak at the care facility infected 38 . 
Three care facility residents were hospitalized , and six died . 
Conditions within the corrections facility also likely aided viral spread . 
" The facility had not implemented daily symptom screening for staff members or enforced regular use of masks after the first case was identified , " said the authors . 
The corrections facility did eventually practice these measures after the outbreak began . 
The total toll is likely an undercount , the researchers said , because the investigators never were given a guest list to track down everyone who may have been affected . 
