When the British Swedish drugmaker Astra Zeneca announced on Monday that its experimental coronavirus vaccine is 70 % effective on average , the world exhaled a collective sigh of relief and stocks rallied . 
Another vaccine with promising results had arrived . 
But a lack of clarity surrounding several aspects of the data from the Astra Zeneca vaccine trials have raised some eyebrows in the scientific community , potentially setting back the timing for the vaccine to be authorized in Europe and the United States . 
What happened with the trials : Astra Zeneca said on Monday that study participants in the UK had been given two different courses of the vaccine . 
The drugmaker , which developed the vaccine with the University of Oxford , did not however , at the time , explain why they used two different dosing regimens or why the size of one group was significantly smaller than the other . 
In one group , 2,741 participants received a half dose of the vaccine and then a full dose at least a month later . 
This group was 90 % protected against Covid 19 . 
In the second group , 8,895 participants received a full dose followed by another full dose at least a month later . 
This group was only 62 % protected . 
That 's why Astra Zeneca says their vaccine is 70 % effective , on average . 
Those results raised eyebrows : Some scientists are questioning why the company would report on a pooled result of two different trials , as it deviates from standard reporting on clinical trials . 
And in the days following that announcement , another point of confusion has emerged . 
On Tuesday , Mene Pangalos , Astra Zeneca 's Executive Vice President who heads up non oncology research and development , first explained to Reuters that a lab error was the reason why some volunteers had received a smaller dose -- the dose that proved to be 90 % effective . 
" The reason we had the half dose is serendipity , " Pangalos said , adding that researchers had " underpredicted the dose of the vaccine by half . " 
Read the full story : 
