The novel coronavirus began in December in the central Chinese city of Wuhan , Hubei province . 
Now , it 's spread to 27 other countries and territories , and killed more than 1,100 people , the majority in mainland China . 
Take a look at how we got here : December 8 : First patient develops symptoms of coronavirus in Wuhan . 
December 31 : Earliest cases of virus reported to World Health Organization ( WHO ) . 
January 1 : Seafood and wildlife market in Wuhan , where the outbreak is believed to have originated , is closed for disinfection January 7 , 2020 : Chinese authorities confirm that they have identified the virus as a novel coronavirus January 9 : First person dies of the virus , though his death was not announced until January 11 . 
January 13 : Thai authorities report their first case -- a Chinese national who had arrived from Wuhan . 
January 16 : Japanese authorities confirm their first case . 
January 17 : Second person in China dies of virus . 
US airports implement screenings for symptoms . 
January 21 : US officials confirm their first case . 
January 23 : Wuhan is placed on lockdown , with movement halted in or out of the city . 
Lunar New Year celebrations are canceled in major Chinese cities , with 60 million people affected by travel restrictions . 
WHO says virus is not yet a public health emergency of international concern January 28 : Death toll tops 100 . 
The number of confirmed cases in mainland China overtakes the deadly 2003 severe acute respiratory syndrome ( SARS ) outbreak January 30 : The US reports its first confirmed case of person to person transmission . 
February 2 : A Chinese man dies from the coronavirus in the Philippines -- the first time a death has been reported outside mainland China . 
February 4 : The Diamond Princess cruise ship is docked under quarantine in Japan 's Yokohama Bay with more than 3,700 people on board . 
February 7 : Chinese whistleblower doctor Li Wenliang , who was targeted by Wuhan police for trying to warn friends , dies of the coronavirus . 
Chinese social media is flooded with grief , anger , and calls for freedom of speech . 
February 8 : The US Embassy in Beijing confirms that a US national died in Wuhan on February 6 , marking the first confirmed death of a non Chinese national . 
February 10 : A team of international experts from the WHO arrives in China to assist with containing the outbreak . 
