Good morning , Melissa Davey here in Melbourne , taking over from Kevin Rawlinson in London to continue bringing you updates from around the world . 
While many countries are still struggling to contain the virus , here in Australia people are heading into the weekend with more freedom to visit cafes , travel throughout their state or territory and visit friends and family . 
Restrictions are loosening at different rates around the country , with just over 500 active cases . 
There have been 101 deaths . 
State leaders continue to spar over the refusal of some premiers to reopen state borders as debates continue over when interstate travel should resume . 
It prompted the federal home affairs minister , Peter Dutton , who describes himself as a " proud Queenslander " , to weigh in on Friday , telling people in that state to test whether the border closures were allowed by the constitution . 
" People are right to test that if they think it ’s not [ allowed by the constitution ] because it ’s affecting people ’s lives , " he said . 
" I ’m not taking advice from people south of the border at all , but I believe it ’s in Queensland ’s best interests , given that we are a mining state , we ’re a tourism state , and we want to get people back to work . " 
Dutton ’s comments came as the federal government blamed employers incorrectly filling in a form for massively overestimating the size of the jobkeeper payment scheme . 
The error between the number of employees businesses estimated would be covered by the scheme and the actual amount receiving the payment means the scheme will cover 3.5 million workers , down from 6.5 million . 
It makes this exchange particularly interesting : This was Deputy Treasurer Michael Sukkar last week when asked by @ Raf Epstein whether the Federal Government would consider expanding # jobkeeper # auspol @ sclark melbs It will also cost about $ 70bn , not $ 130bn . 
The government is so far resisting calls from Labor to extend the payment to casuals and those workers who were not eligible for the payment . 
