Questions are being raised over how an 83 year old American woman , who had been on the first charter flight taking 143 Westerdam passengers to Malaysia , was infected with coronavirus after the cruise operator said no cases had been found on board . 
It 's not clear whether authorities will be retesting the other 2,257 passengers and crew of the Westerdam , about half of whom who have already left the ship . 
The ship : The Westerdam was stuck at sea for days , after Japan , Guam , the Philippines , Taiwan and Thailand turned it away over coronavirus concerns . 
On Friday , Cambodia finally allowed the ship to dock and passengers disembarked . 
No coronavirus cases were reported . 
What we know about the patient : The woman arrived in Malaysia with a cough . 
She had no fever or difficulty breathing , but told Malaysian authorities she felt unwell . 
A chest X ray confirmed she had signs of pneumonia . 
After subsequent tests , she was diagnosed with the coronavirus . 
She is in a stable condition . 
Flights canceled : All other Holland America charter flights to Malaysia for the remaining Westerdam passengers have been canceled . 
The Thai government also announced Monday that it would no longer be accepting any Westerdam passengers until February 28 . 
Where did she get the virus ? 
It is not clear from official statements where the American woman contracted the virus or how long she has had it . 
The Westerdam left Singapore on January 16 for what was supposed to be a 30 day trip around Asia . 
The ship visited Thailand , Cambodia and Vietnam , according to marinetraffic.com . But after departing Hong Kong on February 1 , where 768 guests joined the boat , it quickly became unwelcome in ports around the region . 
Westerdam representatives said the company had checked that no one onboard the ship had traveled to mainland China in the 14 days prior to the cruise . 
Everyone was screened : Holland America Line , which operates the Westerdam , confirmed the virus case but was insistent that everyone on the ship had been screened on February 10 , five days before the positive diagnosis . 
Read the full story here . 
