Africa ’s confirmed coronavirus cases have surpassed one million , but global health experts say the true toll is likely several times higher , reflecting the gaping lack of testing for the continent ’s 1.3 billion people . 
While experts say infection tolls in richer nations can be significant undercounts , large numbers of undetected cases are a greater danger for Africa , with many of the world ’s weakest health systems . 
The World Health Organization calls the milestone a pivotal point for Africa as infections in several countries are surging . 
The virus has spread beyond major cities into distant hinterlands where few health resources exist and reaching care could take days . 
African nations banded together early in the pandemic to pursue badly needed testing and medical supplies and advocate for equitable access to any successful vaccine . 
Swift border closures delayed the virus spread . 
But Africa ’s most developed country , South Africa , has strained to cope as hospital beds fill up and confirmed cases are over a half million , ranking fifth in the world . 
The country has Africa ’s most extensive testing and data collection , and yet a South African Medical Research Council report last week showed many Covid 19 deaths were going uncounted . 
Other deaths were attributed to other diseases as people avoid health centres and resources are diverted to the pandemic . 
The WHO ’s Africa chief , Matshidiso Moeti , said : It ’s all a warning for Africa ’s other 53 countries of what might lie ahead . 
While dire early predictions for the pandemic have not played out , we think its going to be here at a slow burn . 
Just two African countries at the start of the pandemic were equipped to test for the virus . 
Now virtually all have basic capacity , but supplies are often scarce . 
Some countries have a single testing machine . 
Some conduct fewer than 500 tests per million people , while richer countries overseas conduct hundreds of thousands . 
Samples can take days to reach labs . 
Even in South Africa , turnaround times for many test results have been a week or longer . 
" We are fighting this disease in the dark , " International Rescue Committee expert Stacey Mearns said . 
In addition , Africa has just 1,500 epidemiologists , a deficit of about 4,500 . 
African nations overall have conducted just 8.8 million tests since the pandemic began , well below the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Preventions goal of 13 million per month . 
Africa CDC director John Nkengasong said estimating the true number of cases on the continent is very tricky . 
Some 70 % of infections are asymptomatic , he said . 
But some experts are making their best guesses . 
Africa likely has at least 5 million infections , said Ridhwaan Suliman , a senior researcher at South Africa ’s Council for Scientific and Industrial Research . 
He believes the true number in South Africa alone is at least 3 million . 
The country has conducted far more tests than any other in Africa , more than 3 million , but in recent days about 25 % have come back positive . 
Because of shortages , South Africa largely limits testing to health workers and those showing symptoms . 
Experts see South Africa as an indication of whats to come elsewhere . 
Sema Sgaier , an assistant professor of global health at Harvard and director of the Surgo Foundation , thinks the number of infections across Africa could be more than 9 million . 
The US based Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation puts the number at more than 8 million . 
And Resolve to Save Lives , led by Tom Frieden , former director of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , estimates it could be 14 million . 
