England has among the highest Covid 19 mortality rates in Europe not only because of the government 's mishandling of the pandemic , but also as a result of its prior deteriorating health situation , especially among minorities , according to a new report . 
" Pre existing inequalities in health , employment , housing , and access to Universal Credit created a ‘ perfect storm ’ of factors which exacerbated the impact of coronavirus on BAME [ Black , Asian and Minority Ethnic ] people , " the Institute of Health Equity at University College London report , which was published today , said . 
The document argues that the Covid 19 death rate has been higher in deprived neighborhoods that coincide with minority populations because they are more likely to be home to key workers " such as those working in health and social care and public transport . " 
As such , those key workers are more likely than white workers to be working outside their homes during lockdowns and " if they logged a safety complaint , they were more likely to be ignored than white British workers , " the report said . 
The report further says people from BAME backgrounds more often live in overcrowded households in deprived urban areas with higher rates of air pollution and are also more likely to have pre existing health conditions . 
" Structural racism means that some ethnic groups are more likely to be exposed to adverse social and economic conditions , in addition to the everyday experiences of discrimination -- causing a robbery of resilience , " it said . 
" The cumulative occupational , living and environmental conditions and low income risks experienced by many BAME groups are largely responsible for the disproportionately high mortality rates from COVID 19 among these groups , " it adds . 
The report argues that existing inequalities prior to the pandemic create a cyclic unequal system , in which the same factors that contributed to a higher death rate among BAME groups will also result in higher rates of post Covid health complications , as well as deeper social and educational inequalities in the future . 
Caroline Nokes , who chairs the UK Parliament 's Women and Equalities Committee , called for more than a dozen structural changes -- including improvements to housing conditions , resources to break down digital and language barriers , and changes to sick pay eligibility -- in response to the report . 
Ethnic groups across the UK also " experienced a worsening of their self reported mental health " during the pandemic , according to a separate report by the UK 's Office for National Statistics ( ONS ) . 
" Financial resilience was lower among Black African or Other Black households before the pandemic , for example , which would explain why these groups found it harder to manage financially during lockdown . 
Perhaps unsurprisingly , mental health deteriorated across most ethnic groups during lockdown but was most marked in the Indian group , " said Glenn Everett , Deputy Director of ONS ' Sustainability and Inequalities Division . 
A separate report published in The Lancet Regional Health Europe journal on Tuesday , also linked poverty in Scotland to higher Covid 19 death rates in the country . 
The study found that 25 % of patients admitted to care units across Scotland between March and June came from deprived areas , a higher proportion than those who came from the least deprived areas ( 13.6 % ) . 
