Russia is sending equipment and teams of doctors to Italy , as the nation continues to battle its worsening coronavirus outbreak . 
The Russian Ministry of Defense said Sunday it had started flying 100 doctors and virologists , along with disinfection equipment , to the country . 
The first Il 76 aircraft of the Russian Aerospace Forces departed Sunday from Moscow ’s Chkalovsky military airfield with Russian military specialists and equipment aboard , the Russian military said in a statement . 
Nine Il 76 transport aircraft , with military doctors , special vehicles for disinfecting and other medical equipment on board , will land today at the military airport of Pratica di Mare , the Italian defense ministry added . 
Some context : This news came a day after telephone conversations between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte and the defense ministers of both countries . 
According to a Kremlin readout , Russia agreed to provide assistance on Italy ’s request , including protective equipment , KAMAZ truck mounted units used for disinfection , medical and other equipment . 
" Italy is not alone in this challenge , " Italian Defense Minister Lorenzo Guerini said after speaking with Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu by phone late Saturday , according to a readout . 
" I want to thank Russia for the help it is giving our country to overcome this emergency . " 
The view from Russia : Putin ’s move came in for some criticism at home . 
Russian officials have faced questions about shortages of protective equipment for medical workers , and the city of Moscow is scrambling to complete a medical facility for coronavirus patients . 
Anastasia Vasilyeva , a doctor for Russian opposition leader Alexey Navalny and leader of the Alliance of Doctors union , wrote a sardonic post on Twitter about Russia ’s move to help Italy . 
Putin and Russian officials claim they have been proactive in combating the spread of coronavirus in Russia . 
The country ’s coronavirus tracking headquarters says Russia has 367 confirmed cases of coronavirus . 
