US President Trump has again leveled accusations that China could have stopped the global coronavirus pandemic , calling the spread " the worst attack we 've ever had on our country . " 
Speaking from the Oval Office today , the President went on to say , " This is worse than Pearl Harbor . 
This is worse than the World Trade Center . " 
What we know : So far , more than 71,000 people in America have died from coronavirus . 
In comparison , more than 2,000 Americans were killed in the Pearl Harbor bombings during World War II . 
On September 11 , 2001 , a total of 2,977 people were killed in New York City , Washington , DC and outside of Shanksville , Pennsylvania . 
But while Pearl Harbor and 9/11 were direct and targeted attacks on the United States , the coronavirus pandemic is impacting countries all over the world , including in China . 
As of today , Johns Hopkins University puts China 's death toll from the virus at 4,637 . 
The President added : " And it should have never happened . 
Could have been stopped at the source . 
Could have been stopped in China . 
It should have been stopped right at the source . 
And it was not . " 
In recent days , Trump and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo have doubled down on the assertion that the virus originated from a laboratory in the central Chinese city of Wuhan , where the outbreak was first detected last December . 
The claim has unsurprisingly drawn fierce rebuttal from the Chinese government , which described the accusation as " smear " intended to bolster Trump 's reelection chances . 
Intelligence shared among the Five Eyes network — an alliance between United States and the UK , Australia , New Zealand and Canada — also reportedly appears to contradict the Trump administration 's assertion . 
Trump 's recent displeasure with China are a far cry from his past statements on the nation and its leader , Xi Jinping , whom he earlier praised for his transparency and management of the outbreak . 
Last month , CNN identified at least 37 separate instances where Trump praised China since January , including one as recent as April 1 . 
( Here is a timeline of those remarks . ) 
As recently has last month , Trump was touting his administration 's trade deal with China during a White House coronavirus task force briefing . 
The president said the relationship with China is " very good " and the " biggest communication " is between himself and President Xi . 
" So , look , the relationship with China is a good one , and my relationship with him is , you know , really good , " Trump said on April 1 . 
Watch here : # # Health # 
