The numbers : China reported its national death toll was 3,226 on Monday . 
There are now more deaths from the novel coronavirus outside mainland China than inside the country . 
South Korea and Japan expand travel restrictions : South Korea : All visitors , regardless of the port of origin , are to undergo a temperature check when entering the country . 
Those exhibiting symptoms will be required to take a diagnostic test and quarantine for two weeks . 
South Korea is extending its postponement of the first day of school from March 23 to April 6 . 
Japan : Citizens are advised not to travel to all of Iceland , as well as some provinces of Italy , Spain , and Switzerland . 
Southeast Asia locks down : Malaysia : From Wednesday , citizens will be banned from traveling abroad , with foreign tourists and visitors restricted from entering the country . 
All non essential businesses will be closed , along with bans on religious , sports , social , and cultural activities . 
Philippines : 50 million people are under " enhanced community quarantine " with residents on the most populous island of Luzon told to stay home , businesses closed and public transportation suspended . 
Thailand : The government will meet to decide on measures restricting public gatherings , closing schools , sport arenas and Muay Thai boxing rings . 
Those measures include canceling the annual Songkran New Year water festival . 
Qantas suspends flights : Qantas Airways is slashing international flights by 90 % until at least May , as coronavirus travel restrictions hammer bookings . 
The Australian carrier said the drastic reduction is because severe quarantine requirements are curbing people ’s ability to travel overseas . 
India restrictions : All travelers from the European Union , Iceland , Liechtenstein , Norway , Switzerland , Turkey and the United Kingdom are banned from entering the country from midnight Wednesday local time . 
The Taj Mahal joins a list of attractions around the world that are closing their doors . 
US medical equipment stocks : Top US health care officials have warned the country does not have enough stockpiled medical equipment like masks and gloves to deal with the coronavirus pandemic . 
Tokyo 2020 Olympics : Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said today that he " secured support " from G7 leaders to hold the Games in their " complete form , " which would provide " proof that the world has contained coronavirus . " 
Japan has faced calls to cancel the Olympics for weeks . 
Met Gala postponed : One of the biggest nights on the fashion calendar has been postponed , following a wave of canceled and postponed cultural events around the world . 
