The United Kingdom has identified a new , potentially more contagious coronavirus variant linked to a recent surge in cases in England . 
The new mutation is being called VUI 202012/01 – the first " Variant Under Investigation " in the UK in December 2020 . 
While scientists hunt for more information about the variant , its impact is already being felt , with dozens of countries imposing restrictions on travelers from the UK . 
Here 's what you need to know : What is a variant and why are officials concerned about this one ? 
A variant occurs when the genetic structure of a virus changes . 
All viruses mutate over time and new variants are common , including for the novel coronavirus . 
Like other variants , this one carries a genetic fingerprint that makes it easy to track , and it happens to be one that is now widespread in southeast England . 
That alone does not necessarily mean a variant is more contagious or dangerous . 
But scientists advising the UK government have estimated that this variant could be up to 70 % more effective at spreading than others . 
Peter Horby , chair of the New and Emerging Respiratory Virus Threats Advisory Group ( NERVTAG ) , said Monday that experts " now have high confidence that this variant does have a transmission advantage " over other variants . 
The World Health Organization said Tuesday that the changes to the variant include 14 key mutations , and that some of them " may influence the transmissibility of the virus in humans , " though it added that further laboratory investigations were needed . 
Where did the variant originate and how has it taken hold ? 
The new variant is believed to have originated in southeast England , according to the WHO . 
Public Health England ( PHE ) says backwards tracing , using genetic evidence , suggests the variant first emerged in England in September . 
It then circulated in very low levels until mid November . 
Chris Whitty , England 's chief medical officer , said Saturday the variant was responsible for 60 % of new infections in London , which have nearly doubled in the last week alone . 
Multiple experts have also suggested that this new variant could have been amplified because of a superspreader event , meaning the current spike in cases could also have been caused by human behavior . 
Which countries are affected ? 
The variant has already spread globally . 
As well as the UK , the variant has also been detected in Denmark , Belgium , the Netherlands and Australia , according to the WHO . 
Australia has identified two cases of the variant in a quarantined area in Sydney and Italy has also identified one patient infected with the variant . 
A similar but separate variant has also been identified in South Africa , where scientists say it is spreading quickly along coastal areas of the country . 
Learn more about the UK coronavirus variant here . 
