There have been more than 18.2 million confirmed cases of coronavirus worldwide , and close to 700,000 deaths , according to figures from Johns Hopkins University . 
Here 's the latest on the pandemic : Potential " generational catastrophe " : UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres warned on Tuesday that the world is facing a " generational catastrophe " because of school closures during the coronavirus pandemic . 
In mid July , schools were closed in more than 160 countries , affecting more than 1 billion students , while at least 40 million students worldwide have missed out on education in their critical pre school year . 
India logs more than 50,000 cases for sixth day in a row : India recorded 52,050 new Covid 19 infections and 803 deaths from the virus over the past 24 hours , the country 's Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Tuesday -- the sixth consecutive day that India has reported more than 50,000 cases . 
Australia deploys more soldiers : Australia ’s Defense Department will deploy 500 more troops to enforce stay at home orders in the state of Victoria , according to State Premier Daniel Andrews . 
New penalties were also announced for people found to be in breach of directions , including a newly increased $ 3,540 on the spot fine for those who breach isolation orders . 
Andrews said the new fines were being imposed because of the 3,000 door knocks on infected people -- who are meant to be self isolating -- 800 patients were not home . 
Trump asks supporters to wear masks : US President Donald Trump on Monday sent a campaign email , typically used for soliciting donations , to make a different request of his supporters : consider wearing a mask . 
The rare move comes after Trump avoided wearing a mask in public for months until he tweeted a photo of himself wearing one in a stark messaging pivot in July -- though footage later surfaced of Trump not wearing a mask later that day . 
Only 2.5 % of Italians have antibodies , study shows : Authorities in Italy have found that only 2.5 % of Italians , or 1,482,000 people , have Covid 19 antibodies despite it being one of the countries hardest hit by coronavirus in Europe . 
According to the results of a national survey released on Monday , the northern region of Lombardy , the worse hit by the pandemic , reported the highest number of people with antibodies , 7.5 % , while the two main Italian islands , Sicily and Sardinia , had the lowest number of 0.3 % of the population . 
