Amid pressure to decrease the number of coronavirus infections in Georgia , which are among the worst in the nation over the last two weeks , the director of communications for Gov . 
Brian Kemp pushed back on questions about a lack of progress made in combating Covid 19 in the state . 
As first reported by the Atlanta Journal Constitution and WABE , the latest report from the White House coronavirus task force shows Georgia is in a " fragile " state and could suffer more without further aggressive actions to control the virus , including a statewide mandate on masks and closing bars in areas with high transmission rates , according to the report . 
CNN reached out to the White House and the task force for comment , but in the past , they have repeatedly declined to make these reports public . 
Responding to questions about the task force report , Kemp 's director of communications Candice Broce said in an email , " Since the last Coronavirus Task Force report was leaked to the AJC , our new cases per 100,000 people has dropped by 22.68 % . " 
However , for a second week in a row , Georgia is among the worst in the nation for new coronavirus cases . 
Georgia is currently third in the country for the seven day average of new cases per 100,000 , with 23.40 cases per 100,000 . 
The state is currently averaging at least 2,485 new cases over seven days , according to data from Johns Hopkins University . 
Broce said the state has made improvements in notable metrics , including in its seven day average of new cases , which has been steadily dropping since Georgia was at its highest levels in late July . 
In the last seven days , cases across Georgia have declined by 12 % . 
Over the last 14 days the state has seen a 26.26 % decrease in cases , according to an analysis of data from Johns Hopkins University . 
Broce further defended the governor ’s efforts by underscoring recent improvements made in hospitalizations and positivity rates . 
She added that the White House task force report , which CNN has not independently verified , shows " Georgia is making progress and has seen a decrease in new cases and a decrease in test positivity over the last week . " 
Across the state : The demand for testing is declining despite substantial capacity , including in long term facilities , which have been the source of outbreak clusters throughout the pandemic . 
Kemp is currently considering renewed deployment of mobile strike teams to specific areas of need using the Georgia National Guard , if needed , Broce said . 
Still , more than five months into the pandemic Georgia 's governor remains unwilling to mandate masks statewide , something public health officials say would help improve the state 's abysmal standing among the worst in the nation for new cases . 
Responding to questions about the possibility of a statewide mask mandate , Kemp continued to defer to local governments whom Broce said Kemp has " empowered to implement mandates through his current executive order . " 
