Cyprus on Wednesday announced partial lockdowns in its virus hotspots on the Mediterranean coast and other measures in an effort to curb a surge in coronavirus cases . 
The resort towns of Limassol and Paphos on the south coast are to go into partial lockdown from Thursday until the end of November . 
The health minister Constantinos Ioannou said that travel into or out of the towns would be banned , and a curfew in force from 8pm to 5am . 
After keeping daily infection numbers low through most of the summer , the island has seen them rise to record three digit figures and the health system has started to feel the strain , with a dedicated Covid 19 hospital at capacity . 
Whereas at the end of June it had a total of 1,000 coronavirus cases , the figure has shot up to almost 6,500 in the second wave that is now gripping Europe . 
Forty nine of 68 patients in hospital with Covid 19 are from Limassol and Paphos , as well seven of the last eight deaths from the coronavirus . 
Hospitality and catering venues are to close in the two towns , and gatherings banned in public places like parks . 
Primary schools will remain open , while higher and secondary education will operate remotely . 
Museums , cinemas and theatres will shut until 30 November in Limassol and Paphos , and attending church is prohibited . 
Shopping malls , department stores , hair salons , gyms and beauty parlours will also have to close . 
In the rest of Cyprus , a curfew remains in place until 30 November from 11pm to 5am , while bars , cafes and restaurants have to close by 10.30pm . 
The Republic of Cyprus , which registered 165 new virus cases on Wednesday , has officially recorded 6,461 infections and 33 deaths . 
The island had largely kept a lid on the pandemic by introducing an early lockdown in March that was gradually eased from early May . Authorities are keen to avoid another draconian lockdown , with the economy already in recession . 
Health authorities blame the surge on Cypriots flouting hygiene rules , including on mask wearing and social distancing . 
Face masks are mandatory indoors and outdoors , except at home , while household gatherings are limited to 10 people . 
The breakaway Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus , which is recognised only by Ankara , has registered 986 coronavirus cases , including five deaths . 
