Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway attempted to shift blame for surging coronavirus cases to the nation ’s governors , claiming that Trump ’s somber message and shift in tone was " not a change , " but instead , a reaction to some states that reopened too quickly . 
" It ’s not a change . 
The briefings stopped , but his work has not stopped , " Conway said in response to a question from CNN . 
Remember : Trump warned the coronavirus pandemic is likely to worsen before improving , during the first outing of his revived daily briefings on Tuesday . 
His tone was relatively sober and offered more realistic projections . 
" I think what he added yesterday is him seeing that some of these states moved through our gated criteria , moved through some of our phases , and they opened up some of the industries a little too quickly like bars , " Conway said today of Trump 's briefing . 
Governors , she said , " wanted complete latitude " over reopening , but , Trump " also sees that if he provides information to the public as the President , he 's also giving people guidance as to how to do our part to help flatten that curve and to help some of these cities . " 
She pointed to Georgia as an example of where the President pushed back on reopening phases . 
Amid criticism of the President ’s Tuesday remarks that the administration is " developing a strategy , " she said , " We do have a strategy , " but suggested that Trump was talking specifically about vaccine development and therapeutics and sheltering vulnerable populations . 
Conway said Trump was briefed on the testing matter by Dr . Deborah Birx and Jared Kushner and his team , but acknowledged , " We all think it ’s gotta be better , " pointing to many Americans waiting days for results . 
She was also asked about the lack of public health officials at yesterday ’s briefing and noted that they are frequently on television or on Facebook or , in a nod to Dr . Anthony Fauci , " throwing pitches . " 
Trump and Fauci , she said , " do not have a piece of tissue paper between him , " before pivoting to criticize Joe Biden . 
