Brazil 's indigenous citizens have been hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic . 
Indigenous people in Brazil often live in communities which are far from hospitals , in areas which often lack basic infrastructure . 
Those who move to towns or cities can end up in precarious living conditions with few public services , increasing their vulnerability to health issues . 
According to the country 's Special Indigenous Health Service ( SESAI ) , more than 8,000 Brazilian indigenous people have so far contracted the virus since the beginning of the pandemic . 
The service only counts people living in indigenous territories , urban centers . 
The President of Mato Grosso Indigenous Federation told CNN that Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro 's government has failed to adequately prepare for the pandemic . 
Brazil is nearing 1.9 million cases of the novel coronavirus after its health ministry reported 24,831 new cases Sunday . 
It has the second highest number of Covid 19 cases in the world , behind only the US . 
Bolsonaro , who tested positive for the virus last week , vetoed several points of a law aimed at protecting indigenous communities against Covid 19 last Wednesday , according to the government 's official journal . 
The proposed legislation establishes an emergency plan to combat the pandemic in indigenous territories and classifies indigenous people and other traditional communities as " groups in situations of extreme vulnerability . " 
But the vetoes are not final . 
The law 's text , which has already been approved by the country 's Congress and Senate , must now be voted upon again . 
If a majority in both houses vote against the President 's vetoes , the law will be approved in its entirety . 
Otherwise , the law will move forward without the vetoed parts . 
The president has repeatedly dismissed the threat of the disease , and has a historically antagonistic relationship with indigenous Brazilians . 
Watch CNN 's latest reporting on the ground in Brazil : 
