The chief medical officer of one of the largest hospital systems in Los Angeles County said Friday his facilities are running out of intensive care beds to treat critically ill patients as the region sees an overwhelming spike in new Covid 19 infections . 
" L.A . County is moving toward becoming the epicenter of the pandemic , " Dr . Brad Spellberg , chief medical officer at L.A . USC Medical Center warned in a briefing Friday . 
Hospitals throughout the county are quickly becoming overwhelmed by the influx of Covid 19 patients . 
Today , in the county of 10 million residents , there are just 699 hospital beds available . 
Of those , just 69 are ICU beds , according to Health Services Director Dr . Christina Ghaly . 
" As of right now , we are very tight . 
Hospitals around the county are running out of ICU beds , " Spellberg said . 
Ghaly reiterated that the problem is not space , but staffing . 
Los Angeles County has yet to receive confirmation that the state has more available staff to help with the surge of patients and is awaiting guidance on the state ’s request for help from the Department of Defense . 
On Tuesday , California Gov . 
Gavin Newsom announced that he was requesting 200 health care workers from the federal government , in addition to staff being added through contract agencies , the National Guard , and California Health Corps . 
An additional 80 paramedics and EMTs are being brought in from the Federal Emergency Management Agency . 
Health care workers in L.A . are doing everything they can to accommodate the crush of patients , including diverting patients from a full hospital to another with remaining capacity , but " when every hospital is overwhelmed and every hospital is full , and it does not matter if you move the ambulance from hospital to hospital it all leads to the same result , " Ghaly said . 
Pointing out that hospitalizations tend to lag behind case counts , Ghaly ominously noted that two weeks ago , Los Angeles County was reporting fewer than 10,000 cases of Covid 19 each day . 
In the time since , the county has seen an explosion of new daily cases reaching as high as 22,000 . 
Projections indicate the already strained medical facilities could be overcome , leading to dire results . 
The comments come a day after Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti warned the county may soon be forced to declare a " systemwide crisis " in the coming days of hospitals continue to see a flood of new patients seeking treatment for Covid 19 . 
