Countries are scrambling to evacuate their citizens from Wuhan , the epicenter of the novel coronavirus outbreak in Hubei province , as the number of cases overtake the 2003 SARS outbreak inside mainland China . 
Flights have been chartered and various quarantine measures have been put in place . 
Australia : There are more than 600 Australian citizens in Hubei , according to CNN affiliate Nine News , and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said there will be a focus on repatriating " the young , especially infants , and the elderly . " 
Returning Australians will be quarantined on Christmas Island -- more than 1,000 miles away from Australia in the Indian Ocean . 
European Union : Two planes will be sent to Wuhan to help evacuate EU citizens , Janez Lenarcic , the EU commissioner for crisis management , said Tuesday . 
Around 250 French citizens will be transported in the first aircraft , while 100 people from other EU countries will take the second plane , which will leave later this week . 
Germany : German evacuations are planned to start in the next few days , the country 's Foreign Ministry said Wednesday . 
France : A plane will be sent Thursday to repatriate French citizens , with a second flight is planned for those who may be carrying the virus . 
There are around 800 French citizens in Wuhan . 
Italy : A flight is set to depart Italy on Thursday to repatriate its citizens from Wuhan . 
Spain : Spain 's government is working with China and the EU to repatriate its nationals from the Wuhan area . 
No flight has been planned yet . 
India : The Indian government has begun the process of " preparing to evacuate " Indian nationals from Hubei , a spokesman confirmed Wednesday . 
No other details are known . 
New Zealand : The New Zealand government has chartered an Air New Zealand aircraft to evacuate its nationals currently in Wuhan . 
A government press release says the aircraft will have capacity for 300 passengers . 
Japan : Two flights carrying more than 400 Japanese citizens arrived back in the country from Wuhan on Wednesday and Thursday . 
South Korea : Four charter flights were sent to Wuhan on Wednesday , where almost 700 South Korean citizens have applied to fly out . 
On Thursday the planned flights out of the city were delayed and officials are working to organize the flights as early as tonight . 
Turkey : More than two dozen Turkish citizens in Wuhan will be evacuated in the next couple of days , the Turkish ambassador in China told Haberturk news channel . 
It is unclear whether the plane will land in the capital , Ankara , or Istanbul . 
United Kingdom : Britain had planned to bring back 200 of its citizens in Wuhan on Thursday but had to delay the flight . 
It was understood the flight was delayed due to Chinese permissions that did not come through . 
United States : A chartered plane carrying around 201 US citizens -- mostly diplomats and their families -- arrived in southern California on Wednesday . 
More Americans remain in Wuhan , hoping to be evacuated at a later date . 
The State Department said it was unable to accommodate everyone on the flight because of space limitations but is working to identify alternative routes . 
Read more on this here . 
