The number of confirmed cases of the Wuhan coronavirus continues to rise around the world , with the Philippines and India only the latest countries to confirm the spread of the infection . 
With the number of cases of the Wuhan virus at almost 8,000 worldwide , and over 170 deaths , the outbreak is on pace to overtake the 2003 SARS epidemic within hours . 
The number of confirmed cases in China is already greater than during SARS , which infected 5,327 people in the country and killed 349 . 
Worldwide , 8,098 cases of SARS were confirmed in 2003 , with 774 deaths , a fatality rate of 9.6 % . 
Thankfully , the Wuhan virus does not appear to be anywhere near as deadly , but the greater levels of infection , which experts do not expect to peak for weeks if not months , could see the death toll creep up to SARS levels as well . 
Researchers at Imperial College London who have modeled the spread of the Wuhan virus based on available data from the first month of the outbreak have given a low estimate of 20,000 infections in China alone by the end of the month , with high estimates of over 100,000 . 
With a fatality rate of around 2 % , which experts agree appears to be the current level for the virus , that would translate to between 400 and 2,000 deaths . 
SARS was a key test of the Chinese government at the time , and officials were widely blamed for failing to address the outbreak in time , censoring news of its spread and downplaying the severity . 
Several officials were sacked in the wake of the epidemic and China even publicly apologized to the World Health Organization . 
While Beijing 's reaction was infinitely faster this time , it was hampered by what appears to have been poor crisis handling at the local level , perhaps even a deliberate coverup . 
Failure to protect the country from another devastating disease outbreak -- combined with what is likely to be severe economic pain from the ongoing transport shutdowns and quarantines -- could blow back on Chinese President Xi Jinping , who has taken personal control of the response . 
Wuhan is also a lesson to the world of what scientists have been warning about for decades . 
We are overdue a deadly pandemic and yet few governments are sufficiently prepared -- even Hong Kong , which learned the lessons of SARS the hard way , has run out of face masks and dithered for days over whether to shut its border . 
The Wuhan virus is not as deadly as SARS , and nowhere near as deadly as a true pandemic like the Spanish Flu , and yet may end up killing more people than the former . 
In an increasingly connected , global world , a delay of days in tackling a disease can have major ramifications , as Wuhan shows . 
