Spain ’s coronavirus death toll surged to over 40,000 on Wednesday with infections passing the 1.4 million mark , while the rate of new cases continued to grow , health ministry data showed . 
With 349 people dying in the past 24 hours , the death toll now stands at 40,105 in Spain , which has the fourth highest death rate within the European Union after the United Kingdom , France and Italy . 
Spain passed the grim landmark a day after logging 411 deaths , the highest daily death toll of the second wave . 
Over the past 24 hours , health authorities also registered more than 19,000 new cases , bringing the overall number of people infected to 1,417,709 , the second highest figure within the EU after France . 
Pressure on hospitals is increasing with around a third - 31.78 % - of all ICU beds taken up by Covid 19 patients . 
Despite the figures , top health official Fernando Simon said on Tuesday there were signs of a " clear stabilisation " in the 14 day incidence rate although it would take " several days " for that to be reflected in the death toll and bed occupancy rates in ICUs . 
He said the figures had stabilised " at around 525 cases per 100,000 inhabitants " . 
By Wednesday , that rate had fallen to 514 cases per 100,000 inhabitants , with the health minister Salvador Illa cautiously welcoming the numbers at a news conference : The figures are starting to confirm a stabilisation . 
There is a downward trend but the figures are still worrying . 
We must keep our guard up . 
Despite its high caseload , Spain has been slow to follow the example of other European nations which have imposed new lockdowns to try and curb spiralling cases . 
The UK , France and several other countries have recently re imposed lockdowns as the virus shows no sign of abating , while other European nations like Portugal have entered partial lockdowns . 
Until now , Spain has resisted , with the government hoping a national night time curfew and other restrictions , put in place by regional authorities who are responsible for managing the pandemic , would be enough to slow the rate of infection . 
