The Pan American Health Organization says that almost 570,000 health care workers in the Americas have contracted coronavirus since the beginning of the pandemic , with health care workers in the US and Mexico making up one in seven of all cases reported in those countries . 
The majority of those infected were in the 30 to 49 age group . 
At PAHO 's weekly briefing , Director Dr . Carissa Etienne said that more than 140,000 workers in the healthcare sector in the US had become sick with Covid 19 — of whom 660 had died . 
In Brazil almost 270,000 workers in health care had tested positive for Covid 19 . 
She said that health workers were " becoming infected at an alarming rate . " 
Etienne added that when the pandemic broke out many health workers were redirected to help without sufficient training to protect themselves . 
In many hospitals Covid 19 patients were exposed to others who had different conditions , leaving health workers more vulnerable . 
This was especially the case , she said , when supplies of personal protective equipment ( PPE ) were running low and workers had to re use masks and gowns . 
Etienne said the Americas region now have 13.5 million Covid 19 cases and almost 469,000 deaths from the virus . 
She noted that after months of unrelenting spread , cases were stabilizing in the United States and Brazil — but the two countries continued to report more new cases than any other nation . 
Etienne said that Caribbean states were seeing a surge in the virus , with nearly half of all reported cases in the Bahamas being reported in the last two weeks . 
But she said most countries in Latin America had seen the number of new cases drop over the last week . 
In particular , Chile and Uruguay had managed to " flatten their curve " of infection . 
At its briefing PAHO also asked the United States to reconsider its decision not to take part in the COVAX initiative , which is designed to enable poorer and smaller countries to gain access to a vaccine . 
COVAX is co led by Gavi , the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations ( CEPI ) and the World Health Organization . 
Its aim is to " accelerate the development and manufacture of COVID 19 vaccines , and to guarantee fair and equitable access , " according to the WHO . 
PAHO said more than 170 countries had signed up to the program . 
In June , the US government announced it was cutting funding to the WHO . 
