As US President Donald Trump was painting a positive picture of the coronavirus pandemic and urging states to reopen the nation 's businesses and schools , data from the White House coronavirus task force released Monday shows he was getting increasingly dire reports about the spread of the pandemic in July and August . 
The House Select Subcommittee on Coronavirus on Monday published eight weeks ' worth of state reports compiled by the White House task force . 
The task force releases these reports each week to governors ' offices for their respective states , and has previously declined to make them publicly available or confirm the authenticity of any of the data reported . 
There had been some discussion on a call with governors earlier this month , audio of which was obtained by CNN , about making some of the data publicly accessible in real time , but that has yet to happen . 
The most recent of the eight reports released by the subcommittee is dated August 9 . 
Since then , the course of the pandemic has changed , improving in some places and getting worse in others . 
The 459 page August 9 report has a section for each state , which includes extensive data on the state 's cases down to a county level , as well as detailed , private recommendations to state and local officials to slow the spread , including promoting social distancing and face coverings , implementing contact tracing , and closing bars and nightclubs in " red zone " states . 
The " red zone " indicates there are more than 100 new cases per 100,000 population and/or test positivity is above 10 % , per the task force 's definition . 
There were 20 states in the task force 's " red zone " as of August 9 . 
The " yellow zone " indicates between 10 and 100 new cases per 100,000 population and/or test positivity between 5 and 10 % , per the task force 's definition . 
There were 28 states plus the District of Columbia in the " yellow zone . " 
Just two states , Maine and Vermont , were in the green zones for test positivity and cases . 
On the same day that report was released , Trump claimed that coronavirus cases were rising due to increased testing , which is disproven by the many states in the report with rising test positivity rates -- meaning the proportion of people who test positive compared to negative , which can signal a burgeoning outbreak . 
Read more about the report : 
