Any eventual coronavirus vaccine should go first to the people most at risk of catching it , and of spreading it to others , an independent committee said Tuesday . 
The draft report from the National Academies of Sciences , Engineering and Medicine makes recommendations similar to those that have come from other groups , but it goes into detail to explain why health workers , for instance , should be among the first to get a vaccine . 
The framework document weighs four different criteria . 
The risk of acquiring and infection : Higher priority is given to individuals who have a greater probability of being in settings where Covid 19 is circulating and exposure to a sufficient dose of the virus . 
The risk of severe morbidity and mortality : Higher priority is given to individuals who have a greater probability of severe disease or death if they acquire infection . 
The risk of negative societal impact : Higher priority is given to individuals with societal function and upon whom other people ’s lives and livelihood depend directly and would be imperiled if they became sick . 
And the risk of transmitting disease to others : Higher priority is given to individuals who have a higher probability of transmitting the disease to others . 
" While major efforts are being made to have a significant supply of COVID 19 vaccine as soon as possible , the committee has been tasked with considering the tough choices that will need to be made for allocating the tightly constrained initial supplies , " committee co chair Dr . Helene Gayle , the president and CEO of the Chicago Community Trust and a former HIV/AIDS expert at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , said in a statement . 
The 115 page draft is open for comment . 
The independent committee at the National Academies was set up at the request of the National Institutes of Health and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , which wanted an outside voice to advise on distributing vaccine . 
CDC ’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices will also weigh in on how to distribute vaccine . 
