This is from the Associated Press . 
Its been a tough journey for the first division soccer club from Wuhan , the city at the epicentre of the virus outbreak in China . 
The team came to Spain for preseason training and does not know when it will be able to return home . 
Players have not seen their relatives in more than two months . 
One of them lost a family member because of the virus . 
Their arrival prompted fears among local residents in the midst of the rapidly spreading outbreak . 
They had to be repeatedly tested before concerns about their condition abated . 
It has not been easy for the nearly 50 members of the Wuhan Zall team , but on Sunday they will get some reprieve from their ordeal by attending the Spanish league clásico between Real Madrid and Barcelona at the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium . 
The team will also tour the famed venue in Madrid on Monday . 
Its really a well deserved reward for them , José González , the team ’s Spanish coach , told the Associated Press in a telephone interview . 
It will be an experience that without a doubt they will never forget . 
They have been training and training day after day , distracted by the situation back home , so it will be a nice break for them to watch a game like this between Real Madrid and Barcelona . 
The team will be at the Bernabéu on an invitation from Real Madrid and La Liga , which has a partnership with the Chinese Super League , the country ’s main soccer competition . 
The league has been suspended because of the coronavirus and is not expected to resume until mid April . 
Wuhan Zall was originally scheduled to stay in its preseason base in southern Spain until mid February , just before the leagues planned start . 
Now it is expected to remain in the country at least until the end of March . 
Other Chinese clubs are in a similar situation in countries like Thailand , Japan and the United Arab Emirates , though Wuhan Zall is actually based in the city at the centre of the outbreak that has killed more than 2,800 people worldwide , most of them in China . 
Wuhan Zall arrived in Spain at the end of January but previously practiced in the Chinese city of Guanghzou , nearly 1,000 621 miles away from Wuhan . 
Although the team was far from the initial outbreak , Spanish health authorities had to come out publicly to say there was no reason for local citizens to be concerned about the squads arrival . 
Three players arrived from China later and had to stay in quarantine and be tested for the virus before joining the rest of the group . 
The fear of the unknown obviously always exists , González said . 
I understood those who were reticent about the team coming to Spain . 
But with time it became clear that there was no problem with the team being here . 
González , a former striker who had played in China , said his focus has been to take the players minds away from the situation at home . 
Going to the clásico was one way of doing that , as was the decision to give them 10 days of vacation while in Spain . 
I honestly try to talk about the subject ( virus ) as little as possible , he said . 
Because they are already talking about it all the time , in their rooms , with their relatives back home . 
I dont want to talk about it as well every time I see them . 
I try to make training as fun as possible so I can see them smiling a bit . 
