British Columbia will hold an election on 24 October , making it the largest province in Canada so far to hold a vote during the coronavirus pandemic . 
Premier John Horgan of the left leaning New Democratic Party ( NDP ) said he wanted to ensure " stability " for the province as it responds to challenges presented by the pandemic . 
" This pandemic will be with us for a long time and that ’s why we need an election now . ... 
I ca not imagine 12 more months of bickering , 12 more months of not knowing whether a bill is going to pass the legislature , " Horgan told reporters . 
Canada ’s third most populous province has been governed since 2017 by the NDP , which leads a minority government in the province ’s legislature with the support of the provincial Green Party . 
The province has been credited with largely managing to contain the pandemic in the first few months , although it has seen cases spike in recent weeks along with the rest of Canada . 
Horgan cited the lack of support from the Green Party on two bills over the summer , as well as a high number of members of the legislative assembly from all parties planning to retire from politics , as reasons to call an election . 
He added that the province would expand mail in and advance voting for the election . 
Sonia Furstenau , leader of the BC Green Party , said on Twitter that she had met with the premier on Friday , and " told him he had a stable government . 
This election is completely unnecessary . 
The NDP has chosen the pursuit of power over the health and safety of British Columbians . " 
I met with @ jjhorgan on Friday and told him he had a stable government . 
This election is completely unnecessary . 
The NDP has chosen the pursuit of power over the health and safety of British Columbians . 
# bcpoli Horgan hopes to follow the path of premier Blaine Higgs of the Atlantic province of New Brunswick , whose government turned its minority mandate into a majority in an election earlier in September . 
