The major transmission mode of the Wuhan coronavirus is through " close range droplet transmission , " Feng Luzhao , researcher from the Chinese Disease Prevention and Control Center , said at Monday ’s press conference by the National Health Commission . 
His comments suggest that most people have contracted the virus by being in close contact with an infected person . 
Droplet transmission is when a virus is passed on due to an infected person sneezing or coughing , and another comes into contact with those infected particles . 
Feng said that , " people should avoid going out , especially going to crowded areas . " 
According to a how to guide published by Chinese Disease Prevention and Control Center , the public is advised to reduce visiting families during Lunar New Year , stay home and rest , and avoid going to crowded public areas , especially those with less air flow such as theaters , internet cafes , KTV ( karaoke ) , and shopping centers . 
With more cases of the Wuhan coronavirus confirmed outside mainland China , here 's how can you minimize your risk of getting infected . 
Avoid close contact with anyone showing symptoms of respiratory illness , such as coughing and sneezing , the World Health Organization says . 
Other symptoms of this coronavirus include fever and shortness of breath . 
Severe cases can lead to pneumonia , kidney failure and even death . 
Cook food thoroughly : Scientists believe this coronavirus started in another animal and then spread to humans . 
So health officials recommend cooking meat and eggs thoroughly . 
Avoid live animal markets : Anyone with underlying medical conditions should avoid live animal markets and raw meats altogether , since those people are " considered at higher risk of severe disease , " the World Health Organization says . 
Wash hands : Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds . 
Cover mouth and nose : If you 're the one feeling sick , cover your mouth and nose when you cough or sneeze , and disinfect the objects and surfaces you touch . 
Wear a mask : If you or your doctor suspect you might have the Wuhan coronavirus , the CDC advises wearing a surgical mask . 
Common sense : In general , the public should do " what you do every cold and flu season , " said Dr . John Wiesman , the health secretary in Washington state -- where the first US case of Wuhan coronavirus was confirmed . 
