The first tragedy of America 's bleak coronavirus milestone is that 100,000 people did not have to die . 
The second is that no one knows how many more will perish before the pandemic fades . 
The desperate toll passed into six figures on Wednesday afternoon : 100,000 victims , who were living Americans several months ago , when the viciously infectious virus made landfall . 
The landmark is a story of lost mothers , fathers , grandparents , siblings , spouses and even children . 
Families are shattered , and the dying expire alone . 
They ca not even be mourned owing to social distancing — one of Covid 19 's cruelest impositions . 
The virus has been disproportionately infecting communities of color . 
Black Americans represent 13.4 % of the American population , according to the US Census Bureau , but counties with higher black populations accounted for more than half of all Covid 19 cases and almost 60 % of deaths as of mid April , a study by epidemiologists and clinicians found . 
The virus has also exploited monetary divides , as infections at meat packing plants show , while many white collar workers work from home . 
The victims also include the living — the more than 30 million Americans whose livelihoods disappeared in the most dramatic collapse in American economic history . 
A generation born amid the fear of 9/11 just graduated high school during another national trauma . 
Families near and far have not gathered for months — and may not for months to come . 
But a pandemic — a signature moment alongside civil war , world wars , assassinations and economic crises , in the near 250 year history of the US — is also a political , governmental story . 
Politicians , few so vociferously as President Donald Trump , want the credit when things go well . 
So must they carry the can when they fail . 
Covid 19 's assault is a once in a century event , and no set of detailed plans , war games and batch of epidemiological theories could have prepared the nation for every unknown challenge . 
Read more : 
