The Mexican president Andrés Manuel López Obrador suggested on Wednesday that politicians who impose lockdowns or curfews to limit Covid 19 are acting like dictators , the Associated Press reports . 
The comments came as López Obrador once again fended off questions about why he almost never wears a face mask , saying it was a question of liberty . 
He said pandemic measures that limit people ’s movements are " fashionable among authorities ... who want to show they are heavy handed , dictatorship " . 
" A lot of them are letting their authoritarian instincts show , " he said , adding " the fundamental thing is to guarantee liberty . " 
It was unclear if the Mexican leader was referring to authorities in other countries , or the mainly opposition party local leaders who have tried to impose limits in Mexico . 
Many governments across the world have effectively implemented lockdowns or limits on when people can leave their homes , something López Obrador has fiercely resisted doing , arguing some people live day to day on what they earn on the streets . 
Some local governments in Mexico have tried to use police to enforce limits on masks or movement , which resulted in scandals of abusive behaviour by police . 
López Obrador argues such measures should be voluntary . 
" Everyone is free . 
Whoever wants to wear a face mask and feel safer is welcome to do so , " López Obrador said . 
The Mexican government has gone against the grain of international anti virus practices in two ways . 
It has offered changing and contradictory advice on the utility of wearing face masks , and has described mass testing as wasteful and pointless . 
But one area in which Mexico has joined with the rest of the world is in the rush to acquire vaccines . 
López Obrador urged the country ’s medical safety commission , known as Cofepris , to hurry up and approve the vaccine developed by US drugmaker Pfizer and Germany ’s Bio NTech , which has already been given the go ahead by regulators in the UK . 
" The whole process of authorization in Cofepris is being simplified , we do not want that to get held up in bureaucracy there , " López Obrador said . 
" This is an urgent issue , the final paperwork is being started and Cofepris is going to be working day and night to approve it as soon as possible . " 
And on Wednesday , Mexico ’s health department signed a contract for 34.4 million doses of that vaccine , and said it hoped to receive 250,000 doses in December . 
Each person requires two doses . 
Mexico has seen almost 107,000 test confirmed deaths so far , the fourth highest tally in the world , but Mexico does relatively little testing and officials estimate the real death toll is closer to 150,000 . 
