The House of Representatives on Friday approved a historic $ 2 trillion coronavirus response stimulus package , clearing the way for President Trump 's signature . 
The far reaching legislation stands as the largest emergency aid package in US history . 
It injects a massive financial boost into a struggling economy with provisions aimed at helping American workers , small businesses and industries grappling with the economic disruption . 
Key elements of the package include sending checks directly to individuals and families , an expansion of unemployment benefits , money for hard hit hospitals and health care providers , financial assistance for small businesses and $ 500 billion in loans for distressed companies . 
A bipartisan swath of lawmakers passed the stimulus package by voice vote , a process commonly used in the House for uncontroversial measures , after Kentucky Republican Thomas Massie attempted to force a full roll call vote — a scenario that had members scrambling to get back to the Capitol from around the country on Friday . 
Congressional leaders blocked Massie 's effort , saying an insufficient number of members supported his request . 
A quorum of the House — 216 members — was needed to block Massie ’s attempt . 
Members who made it to DC for the debate attempted to maintain social distancing , with some staying on the House floor while others sat in the upstairs gallery above the chamber , where the public usually sits . 
Essentially , hundreds of lawmakers traveled to the Capitol in the 24 hours leading up to the vote , not to hold a full vote , but in order to prevent a full vote from happening . 
If a roll call vote had been taken , it would have been very slow : members would have voted in alphabetical groups in order to limit their social interactions . 
Massie wrote on Twitter ahead of the showdown that House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Minority Leader Kevin Mc Carthy worked together " to block a recorded vote just to insulate members of Congress from ACCOUNTABILITY . " 
" Biggest spending bill in the history of mankind , and no recorded vote ? 
# SWAMP , " he said . 
