Members of political parties are furious with Rep . 
Thomas Massie , a Republican from Kentucky , for not being clear about whether he will object to the coronavirus stimulus bill passing on voice vote , with some former top aides also saying the Kentucky Republican is endangering the safety of his colleagues . 
Rep . 
Eric Swalwell , a House Democrat from California , said about Rep . 
Massie : " It ’s not about him . 
I do not want to make an insignificant person more significant . " 
" Dear @ Rep Thomas Massie : If you intend to delay passage of the # coronavirus relief bill tomorrow morning , please advise your 428 colleagues RIGHT NOW so we can book flights and expend ~ $ 200,000 in taxpayer money to counter your principled but terribly misguided stunt . 
# thankyou , " Rep . 
Dean Phillips , a Minnesota Democrat , tweeted Thursday night . 
Rep . 
Pete King , a New York Republican , tweeted on Friday morning : " Heading to Washington to vote on pandemic legislation . 
Because of one Member of Congress refusing to allow emergency action entire Congress must be called back to vote in House . 
Risk of infection and risk of legislation being delayed . 
Disgraceful . 
Irresponsible . " 
And Brendan Buck , a former top aide to House Speaker Paul Ryan , said Friday that Massie is " legitimately threatening the health of his colleagues , many in their 60s or 70s even 80s , for a stunt on a bill he knows is going to pass . " 
" I hope no one forgets what he ’s done here , " Buck wrote . 
Democratic congressman Thomas Suozzi of New York said his message to Massie is : " Cut it out . " 
He also said there ’s " anxiety " about being here and his family is not happy that he ’s here . 
Now President Trump has weighed in on Massie . 
In a Tweet this morning , Trump called on Republicans to " throw Massie out " of the party . 
Some context : The House is currently debating the $ 2 trillion stimulus bill for the next couple hours . 
Leadership is hoping to pass the measure by a voice vote shortly thereafter . 
The fear right now is that Massie — who has not committed to voting yes — could prevent the House from approving the bill by voice vote , forcing them instead to cast a roll call vote in person . 
Massie is among about 50 members who are in the House chamber now , sitting quietly . 
He has not responded to multiple requests for comment from CNN . 
