It might be necessary to start manufacturing coronavirus vaccines even before they have been fully tested to see if they can protect people from infection , said Richard Hatchett , the CEO of Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations ( CEPI ) . 
CEPI is a non profit put together organization formed to speed the development of vaccines . 
Manufacturing could begin even while some of the Covid 19 vaccines are in the first phase of human clinical testing , which are designed to demonstrate only safety , Hatchett said Saturday . 
This plan could cut time without cutting corners or sacrificing efficacy or safety , Hatchett said on a National Academy of Sciences Covid 19 Update webcast . 
Large scale manufacturing does not usually start until after a vaccine has passed all three phases of clinical trials , a process that usually takes years . 
CEPI first published outlines of the plan to accelerate the process in The New England Journal of Medicine in March . 
It may be more expensive to do things this way , Hatchett said . 
" If we want to deliver vaccine at scale within … our stipulated targets of 12 to 18 months from the initiation of the program , we ’re going to have to be comfortable with those risks , " he said . 
He estimated that tens of billions of dollars will be spent over the next several years for vaccine delivery . 
" If we shorten the pandemic by a month , we ’re saving hundreds of billions of dollars . 
And that ’s the calculus the elected leaders need to make , " Hatchett said . 
CEPI has funded several Covid 19 vaccine research projects , including all three of the vaccines currently being tested in people . 
Two of the vaccines are in phase one clinical trials – vaccines from Moderna and Inovio – and only China ’s Can Sino Bio vaccine advanced to the second phase of clinical trials earlier this month . 
Moderna already intends to use funding from the US federal government 's Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority to help fund a scale up of its manufacturing process , according to a statement from the company earlier this month . 
