Congressional leaders , after months of a bitter stalemate and as millions of Americans have been eager for relief , are finally indicating they 're nearing a deal on a new rescue package that could pass both chambers within days . 
But first they need to unveil the details , sell it to their caucuses and try to ram it through Congress quickly — all with the threat of a shutdown looming at the end of the week . 
It wo not be an easy task . 
But top Democrats and Republicans expressed confidence Tuesday evening after the big four leaders met for the first time in months , emerging to say that a deal is finally in sight . 
But they refused to share any details . 
Here 's how the legislative process could play out : Negotiators are likely to introduce a $ 1.4 trillion government funding package later Wednesday . 
Then , when the House Rules Committee meets to tee up a House vote , an amendment will be offered to tack on the Covid relief deal before sending the full package to the floor . 
Once a vote takes place in the House , there will be little time left on the calendar before a potential shutdown is triggered . 
With such a narrow margin for error , get ready for rank and file members to attempt to exert influence on the process in an effort to win concessions . 
Ultimately , leadership is likely to shut down such efforts , but that wo not stop lawmakers from trying . 
Take , for example , a tweet from prominent progressive Democratic Rep . 
Alexandria Ocasio Cortez of New York on Tuesday evening , calling for stimulus checks , which is uncertain to be included in the final deal . 
Other progressives are echoing that sentiment — as are Sens . 
Bernie Sanders and GOP Sen . 
Josh Hawley . 
If a quick Senate vote is blocked , there could be a brief government shutdown over the weekend . 
And if lawmakers fail to imminently finalize a massive government spending bill for a new fiscal year , there is also a chance they could be forced to revert to a short term funding patch instead , though lawmakers in both parties have made clear they do not want that to happen . 
Read more about the stimulus negotiations here . 
