A handful of countries have announced their coronavirus vaccine distribution plans , with some prepping for as early as mid December . 
Here 's where each stand : AUSTRIA : Austria became the latest country to announce a plan for distribution when Chancellor Sebastian Kurz announced today that the country was hoping to roll out the vaccine to the elderly , carers and medical workers by January . 
Speaking at a press conference in Vienna , Kurz thanked the European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen for procuring vaccines for European countries , calling them a " game changer . " 
The European Union has signed deals for the supply of millions of vaccine doses with multiple drugmakers , including Astra Zeneca , Moderna and Pfizer . 
Kurz said he believes that Austria will return to " normalcy " by next summer . 
ITALY : On Monday , Italy also announced that it hoped to start distributing the vaccine by the end of January . 
Speaking on the on Italian television channel La7 on Monday , Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said the vaccine will be available first to the " fragile and most exposed to danger . " 
Conte also said that the vaccine would be administered on a voluntary basis for now . 
When asked if he would get vaccinated , Conte said he " will definitely do it , " because when it will be distributed it will be " absolutely safe " . 
GERMANY : German Health Minister Jens Spahn is optimistic a vaccine could be available by December . 
" There is reason to be optimistic that a vaccine will be approved in Europe this year . 
And then we can start with the vaccinations immediately , " Spahn said on Monday , according to CNN affiliate NTV . 
Spahn also said that he had asked the country ’s 16 regional states to establish immunization centers by mid December in anticipation of the vaccine approval . 
SPAIN : Spain ’s health minister , Salvador Illa said that he expects to receive the country 's first coronavirus vaccine doses in January . 
During a press conference on Tuesday , Illa presented the government ’s plan that will prioritize the most vulnerable , which includes about 2.5 million people . 
Nursing home residents and staff will be first , followed by the disabled and general health workers , he said . 
Spain ’s strategy aims to vaccinate a significant part of the population within the first six months of 2021 , with the plan expected to be completed in three stages . 
The first one will begin in January until March with a limited number of doses available , followed by a second stage from March until June , when authorities expect to increase the number of vaccinations with a final stage starting in June , which is expected to cover a wider segment of the population . 
The health minister also said he was confident his government ’s plan will be able to provide vaccines for the whole country , noting that they had signed agreements that should allow for 140 million doses to " According to the agreements we have signed , we estimate that Spain will receive 140 million doses to immunize approximately 80 million people , obviously this ( number ) is higher than our country ’s population " He said that the vaccine wo not be mandatory and will be available free of charge . 
US : The first Americans could receive a coronavirus vaccine by December 11 , according to Dr . Moncef Slaoui , the head of the government 's effort to develop a vaccine against Covid 19 . 
On Friday , Pfizer submitted an application to the US Food and Drug Administration for emergency use authorization for their Covid 19 vaccine candidate , and an FDA vaccine advisory committee is slated to meet December 10 . 
Slaoui told CNN that means , if approved , the vaccine could be rolled out the next day . 
" Our plan is to be able to ship vaccines to the immunization sites within 24 hours from the approval , so I expect maybe on day two after approval on the 11th or the 12th of December , " he said . 
UK : The UK ’s Health Screechy Matt Hancock said in a statement on Monday that its national health service would be " ready to deliver " the Covid 19 vaccine following regulatory approval . 
" The NHS has vast experience in delivering widespread vaccination programs and an enormous amount of work has taken place to ensure we have the logistical expertise , transport and workforce to roll out a vaccine according to clinical priority , at the speed at which it can be manufactured , " Hancock said . 
Britain is expected to receive a total of 40 million doses of the Pfizer/Bio NTech vaccine by the end of 2021 -- which is " enough to vaccinate up to a third of the population , with the majority of doses anticipated in the first half of next year , " according to a statement from the Department of Health on Monday . 
The Pfizer/Bio NTech vaccine will only be authorized for supply by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency ( MHRA ) " if it meets strict standards of quality , safety , and effectiveness , and if they are satisfied the vaccine can be consistently manufactured , " it said . 
