Qantas Airways is slashing international flights by 90 % until at least May , as coronavirus travel restrictions hammer bookings . 
The Australian carrier said on Tuesday that the drastic reduction is because severe quarantine requirements are curbing people ’s ability to travel overseas . 
Qantas will also cut domestic capacity by about 60 % . 
An industry in crisis : The unprecedented travel restrictions and plunge in demand has prompted the worst aviation crisis in history . 
A growing number of countries , including the United States and Canada , are closing their borders to international travelers in an effort to contain the novel coronavirus pandemic . 
Government officials around the world are also urging citizens to avoid any non essential travel and advising people to cancel or postpone events , such as concerts , sports , and even weddings . 
Billions at stake : Global airlines stand to lose $ 113 billion in sales if the coronavirus continues to spread , according to the latest assessment from the International Air Transport Association . 
The massive losses are prompting industry bodies to call on governments to help . 
The firm said most airlines in the world will be bankrupt by the end of May unless governments intervene . 
" Cash reserves are running down quickly as fleets are grounded , and what flights there are operate much less than half full . " 
Last month , when the virus was still largely affecting the Asia Pacific region , Qantas had already warned the coronavirus outbreak could reduce its profit by up to 150 million Australian dollars ( $ 91.7 million ) in the second half of its fiscal year . 
The carrier 's dramatic cuts to international flights on Tuesday is up from the 23 % reduction it had announced just last week -- Qantas said that the plunge in demand and flight cuts will be felt across the business . 
The carrier , which employs 30,000 people , said it will roll out paid and unpaid leave . 
The company had previously said its CEO and chairman would receive three months of no pay . 
