A handful of Indian states and union territories have begun to ease lockdown restrictions in line with guidelines issued by the country 's Ministry of Home Affairs ( MHA ) : In a televised address on April 14 , Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3 , but announced a conditional relaxing of restrictions in parts of the country with low or zero levels of coronavirus cases . 
Which states are easing restrictions ? 
Maharashtra : With 4,203 confirmed cases and 223 deaths as of Monday morning , the western state currently has the highest number of cases in the country , but will begin to allow some essential activity in certain " orange " and " green " zones that have recorded low levels of cases . 
The measures being relaxed are geared towards the agricultural sector -- farming , fisheries and plantations -- which provide a lifeline for thousands of farmers across the country . 
Red zones where there is a high or increasing number of cases will not see relaxations . 
" We have given permission only for industries in the essential sector and the transport of essentials , " Uddhav Thackeray , the chief minister of Maharashtra said in his weekly address on April 19 , adding that district borders will remain closed and all other services will remain shut until May 3 . 
" We want transport of goods and not of the virus , " Thackeray added . 
Kerala : The southern state , which has been praised for its success in tackling the outbreak , has now drawn criticism from the MHA after announcing a substantial easing of restrictions in " green zones . " 
This includes restaurants opening with social distancing rules in place , private vehicular movement under the " odd even " scheme , which enables cars with even and odd number plates to drive on alternate days . 
" This amounts to dilution of guidelines issued by MHA and a violation of MHA Order dated 15th April 2020 , " read a tweet by the spokesperson for the Ministry of Home Affairs . 
" The Government of Kerala is urged to revise guidelines in line with MHA guidelines , without any dilution and ensure strict compliance , " continued the tweet . 
Madhya Pradesh : Agricultural activity and manufacturing will resume in districts that have no cases , as well as in districts that have a low number of hotspots and have managed to contain cases . 
Essential public works programs will also be allowed , but with strict rules on social distancing . 
Like the agricultural sector , the public works department provides an income for hundreds of thousands of daily wage earners across the country . 
" However , in districts where the situation is dire , such as Indore , Bhopal and Ujjain , there will be no relaxations because our first priority is people 's lives , " Shivraj Chauhan , chief minister of the central Indian state said in an address on Sunday . 
Uttar Pradesh : The chief minister of India ’s most populous state , Yogi Adityanath , reviewed lockdown measures on Sunday and asked district magistrates to decide on the relaxation of measures . 
" There are 19 districts that have more than 10 positive cases of coronavirus . 
District authorities should be reluctant to take risks while making decisions on relaxation from April 20 in these areas . 
No relaxations will be made in hotspot areas , " Adityanath said in an address on Sunday . 
States that wo not ease restrictions Delhi : Lockdown restrictions will continue in the capital , Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced Sunday , adding that he would reassess the situation with experts after a week . 
‘ ’ Delhi has 11 districts and all of them have declared hotspots . 
As per the central government , restrictions cannot be relaxed in containment areas , " Kejriwal said . 
" All 186 Covid 19 positive cases reported yesterday were asymptomatic . 
They did not know they had coronavirus , which is more worrying , " he added . 
Delhi has the second highest number of cases in the country , with 2,003 confirmed cases and 45 deaths as of Monday morning . 
Punjab : Lockdown restrictions in the north Indian state will remain until May 3 , in line with the nationwide extension . 
Telangana : The southern state has decided to extend lockdown measures until May 7 . 
