Researchers in Florida said they believe their experiment has shown that the new coronavirus has mutated in a way that makes it more easily to infect human cells . 
They said more research is needed to show whether this changes how the virus infects people , and whether the change has affected the course of the pandemic . 
But at least one researcher not involved in the study said it likely has done so , and the changes may explain why the virus has caused so many infections in the United States and Latin America . 
The scientists at the Scripps Research Institute in Florida said the mutation affect the spike protein – a structure on the outside of the virus that it uses to get into cells . 
If the findings are confirmed , it would the first time someone has demonstrated the virus has changed in a significant way . 
" Viruses with this mutation were much more infectious than those without the mutation in the cell culture system we used , " Scripps Research virologist Hyeryun Choe , who helped lead the study , said in a statement . 
Just this week , the World Health Organization said the mutations seen so far in the new coronavirus had not made it more easily transmissible , nor had they made the virus more likely to cause serious illness . 
Choe and colleagues ran a series of experiments in lab dishes that show a mutation called D614G gives the virus many more spikes , which in turn make it easier for it to get into cells . 
They ’ve published their findings on a preprint server called Bio Rxiv . 
That means the work has not been reviewed by other experts in the field . 
But Choe and colleagues did send their paper to William Haseltine , a virologist , biotechnology entrepreneur and chairman of Access Health International . 
Haseltine believes the findings explain the easy spread of coronavirus across the Americas . 
" It is significant because it shows the virus can change , does change to its advantage and possibly to our disadvantage , " he told CNN . 
" It has done a good job so far of adapting to human culture . " 
