A panel of outside advisers to the US Food and Drug Administration have endorsed emergency use of Moderna ’s coronavirus vaccine , virtually assuring a second option for protecting against Covid 19 for a pandemic ravaged nation . 
The committee voted 20-0 with one abstention that the benefits of the vaccine outweigh its risks in people aged 18 and older , one week after the same panel backed a similar vaccine from Pfizer and Bio NTech , leading to an FDA emergency use authorisation ( EUA ) a day later . 
The FDA is expected to grant the EUA as early as late Thursday or Friday , providing another ray of hope to a nation that has lost more than 300,000 lives to Covid 19 - including a one day high of 3,580 deaths on Wednesday - while record numbers of patients threaten to overwhelm US hospitals . 
The Moderna vaccine is set to begin distribution as soon as the FDA gives the green light . 
Health and human services secretary Alex Azar told CNBC on Thursday that 5.9m doses have been allotted for state governors and were ready to ship nationwide . 
The vaccines are not a panacea , however , as they will take months to roll out to a nation where the virus is running rampant and public health measures such as social distancing and mask wearing are being rejected by large parts of the population . 
Unlike Pfizer ’s vaccine , which comes with complex distribution challenges due to its need to be shipped and stored at - 70C , Moderna ’s vaccine does not require specialised ultra cold freezers or vast quantities of dry ice , making it easier to supply rural and remote areas . 
US officials have said they expect to have 40m doses of the Pfizer/Bio NTech and Moderna vaccines by the end of the year - enough to inoculate 20 million people . 
Both vaccines were about 95 % effective at preventing illness in pivotal clinical trials with no serious safety issues . 
The first wave of doses are expected to be earmarked for healthcare workers who treat Covid 19 patients and vulnerable residents and staff of nursing homes . 
Documents prepared by FDA scientists and released ahead of the meeting , said a two dose regimen of the Moderna vaccine was highly effective in preventing Covid 19 and did not raise any specific safety issues . 
Perhaps even more significant , as hospital intensive care units fill to capacity across the country , there were no cases of severe Covid 19 among those who got the vaccine in the trial versus 30 such cases in the placebo group . 
The vaccine , based on the new technology of synthetic messenger RNA ( m RNA ) , is administered in two shots about 28 days apart . 
The Pfizer/Bio NTech shot is also an m RNA vaccine . 
