Due to the rise in coronavirus cases , 12 states — Arizona , Arkansas , Delaware , Florida , Idaho , Louisiana , Maine , Nevada , New Mexico , North Carolina , Texas and Washington — have rolled back or paused reopening plans . 
Here 's a breakdown of where all 50 states stand when it comes to reopening : Alabama – Reopening continues as state education and health officials unveiled on Friday a road map for school districts to reopen in the fall . 
Alaska – The state is currently in phase three of a four phase reopening plan . 
Arizona – Gov . 
Doug Ducey said Thursday the state ’s reopening plans are now " on pause " as a result of a major spike in coronavirus cases . 
Arkansas – Gov . 
Asa Hutchinson said Thursday he is not ready to further lift restrictions as cases surge . 
California – If and when Covid 19 patients begin to strain resources like hospitals and ICU beds , Gov . 
Gavin Newsom plans to pull back on their reopening ability , he said Thursday . 
Colorado – Gov . 
Jared Polis and state health officials said Thursday if the virus keeps spreading , they may have to slow or stop the reopening process . 
Connecticut – Gov . 
Ned Lamont said Thursday the state appears to be on track for a safe reopening of schools in the fall . 
Delaware – Gov . 
John Carney announced Thursday the delay of the third phase of economic reopening originally scheduled for Monday . 
Florida – Gov . 
Ron De Santis says the state has no plan for continuing its reopening . 
The state has stopped on premises consumption of alcohol at bars . 
Georgia – The majority of Georgia businesses statewide have reopened with restrictions . 
Live venues are slated to reopen July 1 . 
Hawaii – Reopening continues with Gov . 
David Ige announcing that travel restrictions will be lifted for tourist with negative tests results . 
Idaho – Gov . 
Brad Little on Thursday said the state will remain in stage four of reopening for at least two more weeks . 
Illinois – The fourth phase of reopening in Illinois starts Friday and includes gyms and indoor dining . 
Indiana – Indiana is on track to enter the fifth and final stage of reopening on July 4 . 
Iowa – Reopening continues as state education officials released guidelines Thursday allowing schools to reopen to normal activities as of July 1 . 
Kansas – Gov . 
Laura Kelly announced Monday she is recommending communities remain in phase three of the state 's reopening plan in for at least two more weeks . 
Kentucky – Reopening plans resume as state allows visitation at assisted living facilities to begin on Monday . 
Louisiana – Gov . 
John Bel Edwards on Thursday formally extended the second phase of reopening in Louisiana for another 28 days , as new Covid 19 cases and hospitalizations increase . 
Maine – Gov . 
Janet Mills paused the state 's next phase , which would allow bars and restaurants to reopen July 1 . 
Maryland – Gov . 
Larry Hogan said the state will " continue to safely reopen " in a statement Thursday . 
Massachusetts – State is currently in phase two and on track to start phase three in July . 
Michigan – Gov . 
Gretchen Whitmer allowed Thursday for professional sports to return without spectators . 
Minnesota – Reopening continues with indoor games and scrimmages for youth sports expected to resume on July 1 . 
Mississippi – All Mississippi businesses were allowed to reopen in early June . 
Missouri – Reopening continues as the state entered second phase of its " Show Me Strong Recovery " plan on June 16 . 
Montana – State has been in second phase of reopening since June 1 , but there is no indication when it will move into its final phase . 
Nebraska – Reopening continues with most counties currently in third phase . 
Nevada – Gov . 
Steve Sisolak said Monday there is no timeline for further lifting of restrictions . 
New Hampshire – Reopening continues with movie theaters and other venues expected to open on Monday . 
New Jersey – Reopening still underway , Atlantic City casinos can reopen July 2 with 25 % capacity . 
New Mexico – Gov . 
Michelle Lujan Grisham said Thursday further economic reopening plans are on hold . 
" We ’re not quite ready to go to Phase Two , " she said . 
New York - Gov . 
Andrew Cuomo removed shopping malls , gyms and movie theaters from its plans to reopen during phase four . 
North Carolina – Gov . 
Roy Cooper extended the second phase of the state 's reopening plan for three additional weeks on Wednesday . 
North Dakota – State 's " Smart Restart " plan continues to ease restrictions on restaurants , bars and school graduations . 
Ohio – Reopening is continuing with the latest restrictions lifted on June 22 , allowing sports practice to resume . 
Oklahoma – Gov . 
Kevin Stitt said Friday he is not planning to roll back any reopening plans at this point . 
Oregon – Most of the state is currently in phase two . 
In early June , Gov . 
Kate Brown paused pending county applications for reopening for a week when case count rose following the start of reopening . 
Pennsylvania – The southeastern part of the state advance to its " green phase " Friday . 
The rest of the state is expected to do the same on July 3 . 
Rhode Island – State expects to advance to phase three in July . 
Parking capacity at Rhode Island beaches was expanded this week . 
South Carolina – Reopening continues . 
State education officials released guidelines Monday for reopening school districts . 
South Dakota – Reopening efforts continue . 
Tennessee – Reopening continues . 
State is currently in third phase of its four part reopening plan . 
Texas – Gov . 
Greg Abbott on Friday ordered bars to close again and restaurants to reduce capacity to 50 % . 
On Thursday Abbot said the state would pause any further phases to reopen . 
Utah – State 's four part , tiered reopening plan continues . 
Gov . 
Gary Herbert did pause the state 's plan for a short time in early June . 
Vermont – State remains on track with reopening . 
Virginia – Virginia Gov . 
Ralph Northam said Tuesday that he plans to loosen restrictions for the state on July 1 . 
Washington – Gov . 
Jay Inslee pauses reopening cities and going into fourth phase of reopening plan due to rising coronavirus cases West Virginia – State will advance into week nine of reopening on Monday . 
Wisconsin – State reopening plans continue , though local officials have said they might restrict bars and restaurants if numbers continue to rise . 
Dane County will restrict bar capacity after a spike there . 
Wyoming – Reopening continues with visitation for long term health facilities resuming last week . 
