Scientists have warned the UK ’s Christmas coronavirus plans , which will allow up to three households form a " bubble " to meet over the festive period , will cause the virus to spread and lead to further deaths . 
Martin Mc Kee , the professor of European public health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine , said : " We know that the virus spreads easiest where people mix together , close to each other , for long periods of time indoors . 
These are exactly the conditions the government seems to be encouraging . " 
He urged the government to promote ways of celebrating outside and reducing risks when meeting indoors . 
" There is almost no advice on imaginative ways of celebrating the festivities , despite the long history of outdoor seasonal events in this country , and only the briefest mention of ways to reduce the risks indoors , for example by increasing ventilation , " he said . 
Paul Hunter , a professor in medicine at the University of East Anglia , said : " Any relaxation of the restrictions over the Christmas period will almost inevitably lead to some increase in transmission and therefore , illness , hospitalisations and sadly deaths . " 
However , he said the benefits of allowing families to meet over Christmas may outweigh the risks , and the closure of schools over the holidays will also reduce transmission . 
" The benefits on people ’s mental health of being to meet up with family over this time should not be underestimated , " he said . 
" My personal view is that some relaxation of the rules in line with what is currently being reported will have sufficient benefits to justify the additional risks for the Covid epidemic . 
" After Christmas we will still have to live through a few more months of restrictions at least . 
Christmas , whether or not we celebrate the day as a religious festival , may be what we need to make it through the rest of winter . " 
However , he also stressed the importance of a well managed tier system before and after Christmas as essential for keeping cases down . 
