General Motors and Ford said they are close to completing production of ventilators ordered by the Trump administration this spring , and are ramping down or exiting the operations . 
Many of the ventilators assembled by the automakers and other manufacturers have gone into a US government stockpile as doctors have shifted away from using invasive ventilators with Covid 19 patients . 
The government currently has 108,000 ventilators in its medical equipment stockpile , and 12,000 deployed at US hospitals , the US Health and Human Services department said on Tuesday . 
GM and medical equipment maker Ventec Life Systems are on the " home stretch " towards completing a contract to deliver 30,000 critical care ventilators by the end of August under a $ 489m contract with the federal government , the automaker said . 
GM and Ventec have already delivered more than 20,000 machines , GM spokesman Jim Cain said . 
Ford has assembled about 47,000 of the 50,000 ventilators it agreed to supply to partner General Electric , Ford spokeswoman Rachel Mc Cleery said . 
GE has a $ 336m contract with the government . 
Ford and GM earlier this year said they would employ as many as 1,500 people on ventilator assembly lines . 
Automakers likened the efforts to their switch from making cars to tanks and planes during the second world war . 
With North American car and truck factories back in operation , the Detroit automakers are winding down their forays into ventilator manufacturing , while continuing to make respiratory masks . 
The automakers ’ efforts to build ventilators and other medical equipment were launched in a politically charged atmosphere as the first wave of the Covid 19 pandemic swamped the US economy and healthcare system . 
The shortage of ventilators became a symbol of the nation ’s struggle to respond . 
President Donald Trump put pressure on the automakers as part of a broader push to secure more than 130,000 ventilators by the end of 2020 . 
The automakers used the medical equipment assembly operations set up in the spring to test safety protocols they later used to reopen their vehicle making operations . 
