Thailand , the country with the most confirmed cases outside China of the new coronavirus , said on Sunday that three of the people infected were being treated and five had recovered and gone home . 
The public health minister , Anutin Charnvirakul , called an emergency meeting on Sunday , pledging : We can control the situation and are confident in our ability to handle the crisis . 
The Thai government has faced accusations that it is prioritising tourism - China is Thailand ’s biggest source of tourists with nearly 11 million visitors last year - over public health . 
The hashtag # crapgovernment was top trending on Twitter in Thailand on Saturday with more than 400,000 tweets . 
Users complained about the management of the virus and other health issues . 
Anutin insisted the government would not prioritise tourism revenue over health . 
If it reaches a point where public health is in danger , we will take ( more ) action . . . Detecting infected patients is a good sign because it shows that our system is efficient . 
All but one of the eight cases in Thailand were tourists from Wuhan , the central Chinese city that is at the centre of the outbreak . 
One Thai national , who had visited Wuhan over the New Year , contracted the disease . 
There have been no cases of human to human transmission in Thailand . 
The government is scanning passengers arriving on flights from Guangzhou across five airports including the main Suvarnabhumi airport , Chiang Mai , Phuket , Don Muang and Krabi . 
Based on numbers during the Sars outbreak in 2003 , three months of reduced travel from China would result in 50 billion baht ( $ 1.52 billion ) of lost tourism revenue , the minister of tourism and sports , Phiphat Ratchakitprakarn , said . 
Major shopping malls in Thai tourist spots have introduced hygiene measures . 
Mass transit operators including the Bangkok skytrain and subways are increasing the frequencies of wipedowns and spraying disinfectant in trains , the Transport Ministry said . 
