The test used to diagnose coronavirus is being rolled out to laboratories across the UK from Monday , increasing testing capacity to more than 1,000 people a day . 
Currently coronavirus is tested and diagnosed in one laboratory in London , but testing will be extended to 12 labs across the country over the coming weeks . 
At its laboratories in London , Public Health England ( PHE ) has the capacity to process samples from more than 100 people a day . 
Now , to ensure that the country is prepared for further cases and to speed up the time taken to get results , the test will be carried out by trained scientists across England , Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . 
This will increase testing capacity to more than 1,000 people a day for England . 
Prof Yvonne Doyle , PHE ’s medical director , said : Once China confirmed that they had identified a novel coronavirus , Public Health England was ready to test potential cases in this country . 
We have now trained scientists in labs across the UK to conduct the specialist test – ensuring that we are well prepared should we begin to see an increased number of cases across the country . 
The test , developed by PHE , made the UK one of the first countries outside China to have assured testing capability for the new coronavirus . 
When a clinician suspects coronavirus in a patient , they take samples from the nose , throat and deeper respiratory tract and send them for laboratory testing . 
Using the diagnostic test , scientists can look for evidence of the presence of any type of coronavirus and then hone in on specific genetic clues that identify the novel coronavirus associated with this outbreak . 
The UK wide roll out is the fastest deployment of a new test to PHE and NHS labs in recent history , including in the swine flu pandemic in 2009 . 
In addition to processing samples from suspected cases in the UK , PHE is now working as a reference laboratory for WHO , testing samples from countries that do not have assured testing capabilities . 
