Parents , hospitals and clinics should expect to see more cases of a mystifying condition that seems to be affecting children after a bout with Covid 19 , doctors said Wednesday . 
The condition , called multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children , appears to be a post viral syndrome , said Dr . Jeffrey Burns , a critical care specialist at Boston Children ’s Hospital who has been coordinating a global group of doctors who compare notes on the condition . 
It has affected at least 100 children in the United States , most of them in New York . 
But doctors in Kentucky , Massachusetts , Michigan and elsewhere have also reported cases . 
Symptoms include : Persistent fever , inflammation and poor function in organs such as the kidneys or heart . 
Children may also show evidence of blood vessel inflammation , such as red eyes , a bright red tongue and cracked lips . 
Not all of the affected children have tested positive for the coronavirus , but reports from Europe and from several cities in the United States show a link . 
" There seems to be delayed responses to Covid infections in these kids , " said Dr . Moshe Arditi , a pediatric infectious diseases expert at Cedars Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles . 
Burns believes more cases will turn up as Covid 19 affects more people . 
It ’s a rare condition , but rare consequences of viral infections are seen more often when millions of people are infected . 
Most children are not seriously affected by the syndrome , Burns said . 
Most do not even need treatment in the intensive care unit , he said , although a small number have died . 
" We do have proven treatments that we can use and are using , " he said . 
They include blood thinners and immune modulators . 
The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is preparing a Health Alert Network notification to send to doctors across the country , an agency spokesman confirmed . 
Burns said the World Health Organization is also working to define the syndrome and alert doctors so they will know what to look for and how to treat it . 
While the syndrome has features in common with Kawasaki disease and toxic shock syndrome , it ’s different , Burns and Arditi both said . 
It will be important to study , because the response could help explain why children are so much less likely to be severely affected by Covid 19 than adults are . 
