Health officials across the world have issued warnings that some countries could be relaxing their coronavirus lockdowns too early , raising the chances of new waves of infection . 
As the rules were eased in the UK on Monday , the Association of Directors of Public Health ( ADPH ) said it was " increasingly concerned that the government is misjudging this balancing act and lifting too many restrictions , too quickly . " 
ADPH president Jeanelle de Gruchy said leading scientists and public health experts believed that recent national policy announcements in England -- including reopening schools and non essential businesses and allowing more social contact -- were not " supported by the science . " 
Prof Sally Bloomfield , Honorary Professor at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine , said the lifting of so many measures at once " does not look like gently lifting the lid " and meant that if the situation deteriorates , a full lockdown will need to be reimposed . 
Dr Stephen Griffin , Associate Professor at the University of Leeds ' School of Medicine , said the relaxing of measures for the most at risk " appears to have little grounding in reality . " 
Other countries reopening : Moscow will also begin to gradually ease some coronavirus lockdown restrictions starting Monday . 
Moscow Mayor Sergey Sobyanin said in a videoconference with Russian President Vladimir Putin last week that the Russian capital would allow some non essential businesses to reopen and scheduled walks . 
" I ’m just afraid that the streets of Moscow will be like the Labor Day holiday , so we will begin in a test mode , " he said . 
Russia ’s official number of Covid 19 deaths has been relatively low compared to countries with similar numbers of overall infections , but observers have questioned official counting methods that permit ascribing deaths in patients who tested positive for coronavirus to other chronic conditions . 
Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte also approved a recommendation to relax Covid 19 lockdown measures in the capital Manila from Monday , according to CNN Philippines . 
According to CNN Philippines , this decision is also in line with the recommendation of all 17 mayors of Metro Manila who would like to see nonessential businesses reopen to help restart the ailing economy . 
