The top negotiators on the next round of emergency economic relief cited a " productive " meeting Monday afternoon as they sought to build momentum toward an agreement . 
The somewhat positive tone sought to obscure a cold reality , according to people briefed on the talks : the two sides remain nowhere near a deal . 
Here 's the latest on the stimulus negotiations : Bottom line : The top Democratic and White House negotiators have now held six closed door meetings , for more than 10 total hours , over the course of eight days . 
By their own admission the most recent meeting was deemed productive because the two sides had a better understanding of their disagreements — after six meetings . 
The two sides are still figuring out one another 's disagreements . 
No amount of positive spin can cover up just how long — and rocky — the path toward a final agreement remains . 
What to watch today : Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and White House chief of staff Mark Meadows will be back on Capitol Hill for meetings . 
Senate Republicans hold their closed door conference lunch at 12:45 p.m . ET , with a leadership news conference afterward . 
Where progress was made : The area where there was at least some progress on Monday was on the education piece of the broader proposals . 
Republicans have put $ 105 billion on the table , split between K 12 and colleges , with a chunk of the funds directed explicitly toward the costs associated with schools that are reopening . 
Democrats remain wary of tying anything to reopenings amid the pandemic and have pressed for more topline money . 
But the negotiators did a deep dive into the numbers on Monday , which is a key step toward starting to lay the groundwork for what is actually needed for an agreement . 
As Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer put it : " By going to these specific numbers and what each side thinks they can do with their dollar allocation , it really helps us understand that and move together in a better direction . 
That 's what we spent time doing . " 
Again , that seems like a fairly pro forma part of any negotiation , but getting to a more granular level has been something that 's been missing from the talks up to this point . 
Read more about the negotiations here . 
