South Africa on Monday said it had over 100,000 coronavirus cases , the highest on the continent , while the number of deaths inched towards 2,000 . 
" As of today , the cumulative number of confirmed Covid 19 cases in South Africa has breached the 100 000 mark at 101,590 , " the health ministry said , according to Agence France Presse . 
Sixty one deaths were recorded in the past 24 hours , bringing the total number of Covid 19 deaths to 1,991 . 
Despite the grim death toll , data shows that the mortality rate in South Africa is at 2 % , while 52.6 % of virus patients have recovered . 
The worst hit area is Western Cape , the coastal province accounting for 1,458 of the country ’s deaths and more than half of its infections . 
According to the World Health Organization , more than half of the continents infections are in South Africa . 
Nigeria and Ghana are next on the list , having recorded over 20,000 and 14,000 cases respectively . 
South Africa has struggled to set a strategy for dealing with the pandemic . 
Officials instituted a strict lockdown when the virus first hit in March but they backtracked as the rate of infections increased and opted to reopen most sectors of the economy . 
Despite an unprecedented $ 26 billion virus relief package and food parcels , many South Africans have struggled to get by . 
Under fire president Cyril Ramaphosa has admitted difficulties in balancing public health with saving the nation ’s economy , which was already in tatters before the virus . 
" For a country such as ours , which was already facing an unemployment crisis and weak economic growth , difficult decisions and difficult days lie ahead , " he said in his weekly letter to the public on Monday . 
" We would urge that the difficult decisions to be taken are taken with care and with due regard to balancing the sustainability of companies and the livelihoods of workers . " 
The main opposition Democratic Alliance leader John Steenhuisen has threatened legal action if the government refuses to completely end the nationwide lockdown . 
