Several Latin American countries have informed the World Health Organization ( WHO ) they intend to request more time to sign up for its global Covid 19 vaccine allocation plan known as COVAX , an official at the WHO ’s regional branch said on Thursday . 
Countries have until midnight on Friday to formalise legally binding commitments to COVAX , a mechanism for pooled procurement and equitable distribution of eventual vaccines . 
A representative for the GAVI Alliance , the COVAX secretariat , said by email that details of which nations have joined COVAX will only be made public after the deadline . 
Health officials in Mexico , which has the worst outbreak in Latin America after Brazil , said their country would sign the commitment on time . 
Brazil , which has the world ’s most severe outbreak outside the United States and India , was still studying what to do , a ministry spokesperson said . 
More than 170 countries have joined the global vaccine plan to help buy and distribute immunisation shots for Covid 19 fairly around the world , WHO ’s director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Thursday . 
Jarbas Barbosa , assistant director of the Pan American Health Organization , said in a briefing on Wednesday that Latin American countries were having trouble meeting the deadline and some wanted to push back the date . 
Barbosa said all countries in the Americas except the United States had expressed interest in the vaccine facility , even those that have separate agreements with vaccine makers , because it gives them an added guarantee of access to doses . 
Ten Latin American countries are among 90 poor nations in the world that will not have to pay for the vaccine , while the others in the region will pay an " accessible " price through COVAX , Barbosa said . 
The Colombian president Ivan Duque confirmed on Wednesday that his government was joining COVAX and Paraguay ’s health ministry said it has already signed , even as it plans to buy the vaccine being developed by Astra Zeneca PLC and Oxford University . 
