On Thursday , Fiji 's Prime Minister confirmed the country has its first coronavirus case . 
That came as Samoa -- another Pacific island nation -- announced it had a suspected case . 
According to the Ministry of Health ’s news release , it could be days before the case can be confirmed . 
Other island nations have also reported cases , including French Polynesia , and the US territory Guam . 
This is bad news for Pacific Island nations , which are some of the most remote and aid dependent in the world . 
Last year ’s measles outbreak in Samoa shows how easily disease can spread among its population of 200,000 -- and suggests the country would be ill equipped to cope with the coronavirus . 
During the measles outbreak , Samoa declared a state of emergency . 
Government offices and schools closed , and children were banned from public gatherings . 
But it was not enough to prevent more than 80 deaths -- a devastating number for such a small population . 
Pacific Islands have taken strict measures . 
Samoa now requires all arrivals -- including residents -- to undergo a medical examination within three days before arrival . 
The way New Zealand has responded also shows how concerned it is for its much smaller neighbors . 
On Saturday , New Zealand announced that almost everyone entering the country needs to self isolate for two weeks . 
At the time , the country ’s leader Jacinda Ardern described the measure as the strictest in the world . 
Of course , the rule was aimed at limiting the spread in New Zealand . 
But it was also put in place to look out for Pacific Islands . 
Although people coming from the Pacific would be allowed to avoid the self isolation rule , anyone traveling to the Pacific would need to meet strict new exit rules , including a health assessment . 
Anyone who had traveled outside New Zealand in the past 14 days would not be allowed to go to the Pacific . 
On Thursday , Ardern announced new measures , closing off the country 's border to almost all non New Zealanders -- including those coming from the Pacific . 
But again , protection of the Pacific was part of the plan . 
New Zealand is a gateway to the Pacific . 
It ’s one of the few countries with flights to the Pacific Islands . 
It also has a large Pacific Island community , some of whom regularly travel to the islands . 
As one of the biggest aid donors to the Pacific , New Zealand would likely need to step in and help in the event of a coronavirus crisis -- just as it did during the measles outbreak . 
