The coronavirus is continuing to spread as authorities around the world struggle to contain outbreaks . 
Clusters in northern Italy and Iran ’s Qom province are proving particularly difficult to control . 
In South Korea , more than 500 new infections were reported for a second consecutive day , with more than 2,300 confirmed cases , making it the most affected nation outside mainland China , in terms of reported case numbers . 
Here 's what you should know : Global markets are on track for their worst week since the 2008 global financial crisis , as coronavirus fears have pushed stocks down for a seventh consecutive day . 
South Korean authorities are scrambling to find almost 3,000 members of a religious group , at the heart of the country ’s biggest outbreak . 
Sub Saharan Africa reported its first case in Lagos , Nigeria , on Thursday , as an Italian man who works in the country tested positive . 
More countries are reporting first cases as well , including Lithuania , Belarus and New Zealand . 
The full picture of Iran 's outbreak is still unclear . 
It has the highest death toll outside of mainland China , with 34 reported , but only 388 cases . 
The viral death rate has been at around 1-2 % elsewhere , suggesting that thousands of people may be carrying the virus undetected . 
The Geneva Motor Show , one of the world ’s biggest car shows , has been canceled because of coronavirus fears , The show is the latest in a string of international events scrapped because of the virus , including the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona that was scheduled for this month . 
A plan is in the works to evacuate quarantined foreign diplomats from North Korea , a source inside the country tells CNN . 
The date of the evacuation flight has not been confirmed , but the source says it will likely fly from Pyongyang to Vladivostok , Russia . 
The death toll is rising , with 2,867 deaths now reported in mainland China , and 79 outside . 
Here 's where they 've happened : Iran : 34 Italy : 17 South Korea : 13 Japan : 9 HK : 2 France : 2 Philippines : 1 Taiwan : 1 
