President Trump signed the the $ 900 billion Covid 19 relief package on Sunday , after he initially threw the bill in doubt by asking Congress to amend it right before the Christmas holiday . 
The legislation , which was negotiated on a bipartisan basis , provides for $ 600 in direct payments . 
After the deal passed in Congress , Trump called for $ 2,000 checks instead . 
CNN asked you , our viewers and readers , after Congress passed the bill for your thoughts on the latest relief package . 
Many expressed frustrations over the direct payment of $ 600 and said the bill does not provide enough assistance . 
Briana , from Concord , North Carolina , lost her job as a business development coordinator for a massage franchise due to the pandemic back in March and has not received unemployment payments since October . 
She and her husband now rely on unsteady income they make from a small flooring company they own , where her husband also works . 
She told CNN that while the $ 600 stimulus check is beneficial , it is not enough for her family to get through the next few months , especially since she ’s concerned about making her mortgage payments on time . 
" $ 600 per adult plus the $ 500 per child is not enough to get us through , let ’s just say four months , " she said . 
" So , we have been very , very frugal with our money , " Briana explained . 
She said the first stimulus package from earlier this year was much more helpful . 
Briana also noted that her situation is especially difficult since she made the decision to homeschool her 7 year old daughter because of the uncertainty over in person and virtual learning . 
She told CNN that homeschooling takes up six to seven hours of her day , and she also dedicates time assisting her daughter with schoolwork . 
While Briana has been looking for work , it ’s been difficult to find a job that works with her current schedule . 
" People like me and my family , fall between the cracks , " she said . 
" We need some help . " 
Nicole , a self employed hairdresser from Los Angeles , California , who has been out of work for most of the year , called the $ 600 payment an " insult . " 
She ’s been relying on the income of her husband and unemployment payments . 
" We ’re two income household and we need two incomes to make it work , " Nicole told CNN . 
Being unable to work has been a " big hit , " she said . 
She told CNN the current package is not enough , and like Briana , she said the first stimulus package was more helpful . 
She also expressed frustrations on how long it took for the current package to pass , calling it " unacceptable . " 
The US House of Representatives could pass a provision Monday night aimed at increasing the amount of money individuals and families receive in stimulus checks to $ 2,000 . 
