A statement from a top Russian official indicates that the country 's true coronavirus death toll is more than three times higher than the country 's official statistics show . 
New data from the country 's statistics agency , Rosstat , shows that during the first 11 months of 2020 , there was an increase of over 229,700 more deaths in Russia than during the same period of 2019 . 
Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova , who is in charge of the country 's coronavirus response , said Monday that " more than 81 % of this increase in mortality over this period is due to Covid . " 
According to a CNN calculation , that means 186,000 Russians died from coronavirus in these months . 
With an actual Covid 19 death toll of 186,000 , Russia would have the third highest number of any country in the world . 
Golikova 's statement marks the first time a Russian official has acknowledged what critics have long suspected : that Russia 's true coronavirus death toll is much higher than the official toll , which is under 56,000 . 
Russia has reported more than 3 million confirmed cases but maintained it has a comparatively low fatality rate thanks to how it 's handled the pandemic . 
Doubts over official toll : Critics have expressed overwhelming skepticism of Russia 's official figures , saying that the issue lies with the counting method that permits ascribing deaths in coronavirus infected patients to other causes and allows officials to claim a lower toll . 
For instance , Rosstat said that 35,645 people with coronavirus or suspected coronavirus died in November but added that in about a third of fatalities Covid 19 was not considered to be the main cause of death or a major factor in the death at all . 
Russia coronavirus task force , which publishes daily statistics on new cases and fatalities using a different methodology than Rosstat , reported only 12,229 coronavirus related deaths in November . 
This counting method differs from World Health Organization guidelines , which states that all deaths related to Covid 19 should be counted unless there is " a clear alternative cause that cannot be related " to the disease . 
