There ’s no evidence that testing people before they come back to campus would do anything to help prevent the spread of coronavirus , the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said — and so it ’s recommending against it . 
While colleges and universities can feed " rapid and pervasive spread " of the virus , there may be better ways to control it , the CDC said in updated guidance for institutions of higher learning . 
" Testing of all students , faculty and staff for COVID 19 before allowing campus entry ( entry testing ) has not been systematically studied , " the CDC said in the new guidance posted Tuesday . 
The agency said it 's not known if entry testing at colleges " provides any additional reduction in person to person transmission of the virus beyond what would be expected " with other preventive measures , such as social distancing and mask wearing . 
But , the CDC noted , some universities are going to do it , anyway . 
They should take into account that doing one test , once , is likely to miss cases . 
People can catch the virus later , or may have early stage infections that do not show up on tests . 
Plus , some campuses may be at lower risk . 
" Residential college communities that do not have frequent interaction with surrounding communities might have less potential exposure " than a campus with commuter students , the CDC noted . 
But there are high risk settings at most colleges or universities , including " Residence halls , laboratory facilities , and lecture rooms , " the CDC said . 
What can colleges do ? 
Smart testing would include contact tracing approaches . 
" Expanded testing might include testing of all people who were in proximity of an individual confirmed to have COVID 19 ( e.g . , those who shared communal spaces or bathrooms ) , or testing all individuals within a shared setting ( e.g . , testing all residents on a floor or an entire residence hall ) , " the CDC said . 
" Testing in these situations can be helpful because in high density settings it can be particularly challenging to accurately identify everyone who had close contact with an individual confirmed to have COVID 19 . 
For example , students who do not know each other could potentially be close contacts if they are both in a shared communal space . " 
