Doctors are urging the government to introduce stronger coronavirus measures in England to drive down case numbers and avoid another national lockdown . 
The British Medical Association ( BMA ) said that unless people stick rigorously to social distancing and infection control measures , or there is better enforcement , infection rates will soar and the NHS will " once again be crippled " as it tries to cope with the number of patients with Covid 19 , the Press Association reports . 
The warning came after the prime minister , Boris Johnson , admitted on Friday the long feared second wave of the pandemic has reached the UK . 
While doctors want to avoid another national lockdown , the BMA said recent restrictions have been inadequate and have failed to make any significant impact on the spread of the infection . 
The BMA is calling on the government to reconsider the " rule of six " , which was introduced in England on Monday banning social gatherings of more than six people . 
The BMA wants the number of households people can visit to be reduced , stating that as it currently stands , the rule of six makes it possible for members of six households to meet indoors , potentially many times over the course of one day . 
It is also urging the government to reverse its stance on getting workers back to the office by encouraging the public to work from home , in order to reduce contact between people including on public transport . 
The BMA said unnecessary travel and social gatherings should be discouraged , while it suggested a " take out to help out " approach similar to the chancellor ’s Eat Out to Help Out scheme in order to reduce the number of people in restaurants . 
It also called for entrances to indoor public settings to provide inexpensive disposable surgical masks , and for people over 60 and who have underlying conditions to wear medical grade masks . 
Dr Chaand Nagpaul , chairman of the BMA , said : " It is vital to reduce avoidable mixing of people at a time when the infection is spreading without the testing capacity to identify those with the infection . 
" This requires revisiting the rule of six which allows members of six different household to meet indoors compared to a maximum of two previously , and reversing the encouragement to travel and return to work for those able to work remotely . " 
