The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has told public health officials around the US to prepare to distribute a potential coronavirus vaccine as soon as late October . 
It ’s also provided planning scenarios to help states prepare . 
The documents were first posted by the New York Times and the CDC confirmed to CNN it has sent them to city and state public health officials . 
The scenarios offer details about distribution plans around two Covid 19 vaccines when supplies " may be constrained . " 
The documents prioritize particular populations for the vaccines , including health care professionals , essential workers , long term care facility residents and staff and national security populations . 
Some context : Last week , the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Dr . Robert Redfield asked states to speed through permits for a company the federal government has contracted with to help distribute any eventual coronavirus vaccine . 
In a letter , Redfield asked them to waive any requirements that might get in the way of distributing vaccines by Nov . 1 — before Election Day — and weeks , if not months , before most experts expect any vaccine to be fully tested . 
The documents do not necessarily mean a vaccine will be available by late October . 
Pandemic planning exercises have for years included recommendations that the federal government ready a distribution network while scientists work on a vaccine . 
The Trump administration has said it ’s doing this . 
Companies developing the vaccines are already ramping up manufacturing so that , in case one or more is found safe and effective in people , it could start going into arms immediately . 
The federal government has a contract with medical and pharmaceutical supplies company Mc Kesson to distribute coronavirus vaccines . 
But it will need permits and licenses from states and territories . 
" The Covid 19 vaccine landscape is evolving and uncertain , and these scenarios may evolve as more information is available , " one of the scenario documents advises . 
