Pfizer ’s experimental coronavirus vaccine is now being tested in the youngest age group yet -- kids as young as 12 . 
The move into younger children was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration and institutional review boards earlier this month , but Pfizer broke up the groups of children into older teens age 16 and 17 and young children age 12 to 15 . 
A team at Cincinnati Children ’s Hospital finished vaccinating 100 children in the younger age group last week , said Dr . Robert Frenck , who is leading the trial for Pfizer ’s Covid 19 vaccine at the hospital . 
Half the volunteers in this third and final phase of Pfizer 's vaccine are getting a placebo , or dummy shot . 
" Now we are pausing to watch for reactions to the vaccine . 
We right now are in a planned pause to make sure that everything is as safe as it can be , " Frenck told CNN . 
Among the side effects doctors are watching for are lumps , redness or pain at the site of the injection , as well as fever or achiness . 
Abhinav , 12 , is one of the young volunteers . 
The seventh grader -- whose parents asked that only his first name be used to protect his privacy -- hopes that widespread vaccination will help make it safe for his grandparents to resume visits from India , and for classes to get back to normal at school . 
" I think everyone at my school would like to get back to normal , " Abhinav told CNN . 
" I really think a vaccine could prevent the spread of the infection . 
As of now , I probably would request other kids to maybe take it . " 
Frenck said people may be nervous about giving children an experimental vaccine but noted Pfizer ’s has already been tested in tens of thousands of adults . 
" The reason we can use this vaccine in children is that Pfizer has 30,000 adults who have been enrolled and it has safety data from all those people , " he said . 
Plus , he said , it will be important to vaccinate children against coronavirus if there is to be any hope of controlling the pandemic . 
They are almost certainly contributing to silent spread of the virus . 
" I think the important thing people need to remember is that while adolescents are not getting as sick as older adults are , it does not mean that some kids are not getting sick and some kids are not dying , " Frenck said . 
" We have had 120 kids in the US die from Covid so far . " 
Watch : 
