Madrid residents are set to be barred from leaving the city except on essential trips under new coronavirus restrictions announced by the Spanish government . 
The city ’s borders will also be closed to outsiders for non necessary visits under the new measures for large municipalities with high coronavirus infection rates . 
Another nine cities in the metropolitan area will also be affected . 
" Madrid ’s health is Spain ’s health . 
Madrid is special , " health minister Salvador Illa told a news conference to announce the new regulations , which are due to come into force in the coming days . 
He did not say exactly when . 
People will be allowed to cross municipal boundaries to go to work or school , visit the doctor or go shopping , but must remain within the city for leisure activities , according to the agreement . 
Other measures include the closure of bars and restaurants at 11pm , from a previous curfew of 1am , as well as the closure of public parks and playgrounds . 
Social gatherings will be limited to six people . 
Currently a hotbed for infection , the Madrid region accounts for more than a third of the 133,604 cases diagnosed in Spain over the past two weeks . 
Madrid has 735 cases per 100,000 people , one of the highest of any region in Europe and double the national rate The conservative regional assembly had already enforced localised lockdowns in 45 , mostly poor districts , often with a high immigrant population . 
But the new wider restrictions see the central government overriding the regional government after weeks of fighting between the two authorities over what should be done in the capital city . 
This has taken the political polarisation that has characterised much of the response to the pandemic over the past months to new heights , exasperating inhabitants . 
Spain has recorded a total of 769,188 cases , more than any other nation in western Europe . 
The total death toll stands at 31,791 . 
" We must be conscious that there are tough weeks , very tough , ahead , " Illa said . 
