New Jersey will open six vaccine " mega sites " in January , in service of the state 's efforts to vaccinate 70 % of its population within six months , Gov . 
Phil Murphy announced Friday . 
The sites will be distributed across the state , and will be in place to assist ongoing efforts to vaccinate frontline health care workers early in the new year . 
New Jersey Health Commissioner Judy Persichilli said Friday that the state 's efforts to quickly vaccinate an estimated 4.7 million Garden State residents will hinge on vaccine availability . 
" We expect demand will outpace supply , " she said . 
Persichilli said that the supply of doses from the federal government was already falling short of expectations . 
" The previously expected second tranche of Pfizer doses for next week was expected to be 86,775 , " she said . 
" Now , based on what is entered into the federal ' Tiberius ' platform , we see we are expecting only 53,625 . 
That ’s a reduction of 38 % . " 
Persichilli added that the total expected dosages to be delivered to New Jersey in the month of December had been revised downward by 33 % , according to the federal database . 
Murphy said he had yet to get a satisfactory reason why New Jersey , along with every other state , was slated to get fewer doses of the Covid 19 vaccine than initially expected . 
" I spoke with Pfizer , " he said . 
" They have no idea why this is being done . " 
" Pfizer said to me , personally , ' we want you to know this is not us , ' " Murphy said , adding that he will bring up the issue on a call with the White House this weekend . 
New Jersey reported an additional 3,975 infections on Friday , along with 44 deaths . 
Hospitalizations went down for the second day in a row , with at least 3,582 patients hospitalized with confirmed or suspected Covid 19 as of Thursday night . 
" These numbers have begun moving in the right direction , which is down , " Murphy said before adding , " two days certainly do not make a trend . " 
Note : These numbers were released by New Jersey 's public health agency , and may not line up exactly in real time with CNN ’s database drawn from Johns Hopkins University and the Covid Tracking Project . 
