In the past couple of days , a tweet from the US Surgeon General admonishing people for panic buying face masks has gone viral . 
The tweet echoes guidance issued by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) that only people showing symptoms of the coronavirus should wear face masks , in part to ensure there is a sufficient supply for healthcare professionals . 
But while the CDC and the surgeon general are performing an admirable task in trying to dampen panic about the virus and counter misinformation , some of their statements are being taken out of context and turned into just that . 
People who dislike or disapprove of wearing face masks have used it to argue against doing so , even in places that recommend wearing them . 
Just because guidance is issued by US authorities for Americans ( or in Italy for Italians , or in the UK for Britons , etc ) does not mean it necessarily applies to the whole world . 
In Asia , for example , where face masks have been a common sight for weeks , multiple health authorities and experts have recommended their use by people not showing symptoms . 
Here 's the Hong Kong guidance : Asian metropolises like Hong Kong are far denser , and have far busier public transport , than most cities in the US . 
There is also evidence of community transmission in Hong Kong , and many neighboring countries , which raises the risks posed to otherwise healthy people of being coughed or sneezed upon by someone with the virus -- something a face mask can offer some protection from . 
That does not mean the CDC guidance is wrong -- just that it applies to the US , not globally . 
We saw the same thing with early statements comparing the flu to the coronavirus -- you were much more likely to die of the flu in the US at the beginning of the outbreak when cases were focused in China , but that fact was twisted to suggest that this was true in China , or that the coronavirus was less deadly than the flu , when we now believe it might be considerably more so . 
