Airborne transmission is the main way the new coronavirus spreads , and wearing a mask is the most effective way to stop person to person spread , according to a new study by a team of researchers in Texas and California . 
The researchers , led by Renyi Zhang from the department of Atmospheric Sciences at Texas A&M University , compared Covid 19 infection rate trends in Italy and New York both before and after face masks were made mandatory . 
Both locations started to see infection rates flatten only after mandatory face masks measures were put in place . 
They calculated that wearing face masks prevented more than 78,000 infections in Italy between April 6 and May 9 , and more than 66,000 infections in New York City between April 17 and May 9 . 
The researchers undertook their analysis to gauge the effectiveness of different strategies for stopping the spread of infection and to determine how the virus is mainly spread . 
Viruses can spread by direct contact when a person coughs or sneezes on another person ; indirect contact , when a person coughs or sneezes on an object that is then touched by another person ; or in the air via large droplets that fall quickly to the ground and tiny droplets , called aerosols , that can travel several feet and hang in the air for a while . 
To figure out how the virus is mainly transmitted , the researchers analyzed trends in the infection rates in three epicenters — Wuhan , China ; 
Italy ; and New York City . 
They also looked at mitigation measures that were being used in those locations , such as extensive testing , quarantining , contact tracing , social distancing and mandatory use of face masks . 
Then they compared the timing of when those measures were put in place . 
In China , all of the measures were put in place at the same time . 
In contrast , New York and Italy saw different measures being put in place at different times . 
This allowed the researchers to assess their relative effectiveness . 
They found infection rates in Italy and New York City only started to slow after face masks were made mandatory , not after lockdown was put in place in Italy or after stay at home orders went into effect in New York . 
There has been much confusion about the effectiveness of face masks . 
But the researchers said the evidence shows masks work to slow spread . 
" Face covering prevents both airborne transmission by blocking atomization and inhalation of virus bearing aerosols and contact transmission by blocking viral shedding of droplets , " they write . 
" On the other hand , social distancing , quarantine , and isolation , in conjunction with hand sanitizing , minimize contact ( direct and indirect ) transmission but do not protect against airborne transmission . " 
