The UK government has revealed a new " travel corridor " list – including 59 states and 14 British Overseas Territories – from which travelers will now be exempted from the formerly established 14 day isolation period . 
" The government is satisfied that it is now safe to ease these measures in England and has introduced travel corridors for some countries and territories , " the Department for Transport said Friday in a statement . 
" This applies to all travel to England , by train , ferry , coach , air or any other route , " the statement added . 
According to the announcement , starting on July 10 , unless they have visited or stopped in any other country or territory in the preceding 14 days , passengers arriving from the countries and territories that are part of the " travel corridor " list will not be required to self isolate on arrival into England . 
The United States is not included in the list . 
Earlier on Friday , Transport Secretary Grant Shapps confirmed that the country would not be included , due to the high infection rate in country . 
" Here , we 've got things under control , but we know that [ the virus ] is still raging in parts of the world…so I 'm afraid there is a red list , " Shapps told BBC Radio 4 . 
" The US , from a very early stage , banned flights from the UK and from Europe , so there is not a reciprocal arrangement in place , " he added , highlighting that the US still has a " very high " rate of infection . 
While travelers will not be required to self isolate on arrival to the UK , the government has confirmed that travelers from the UK must comply with coronavirus requirements in the country they travel to . 
" This may include self isolating or providing your details to local authorities , " the Department for Transport outlined . 
Before arriving in the UK , travelers will also be required to complete a " passenger locator " form . 
" We will keep the conditions in these countries and territories under review . 
If they worsen , we will not hesitate to reintroduce self isolation requirements , " the Department for Transport said . 
" This list may be added to over the coming days following further discussions between the UK and international partners , " the statement added . 
Here are the countries and territories that are part of the " travel corridor " list : Andorra , Germany , New Zealand , Antigua and Barbuda , Greece , Norway , Aruba , Greenland , Poland , Australia , Grenada , Réunion , Austria , Guadeloupe , San Marino , Bahamas , Hong Kong , Serbia , Barbados , Hungary , Seychelles , Belgium , Iceland , South Korea , Bonaire , Sint Eustatius and Saba , Italy , Spain , Croatia , Jamaica , St Barthélemy , Curaçao , Japan , St Kitts and Nevis , Cyprus , Liechtenstein , St Lucia , Czech Republic , Lithuania , St Pierre and Miquelon , Denmark , Luxembourg , Switzerland , Dominica , Macau , Taiwan , Faroe Islands , Malta , Trinidad and Tobago , Fiji , Mauritius , Turkey , Finland , Monaco , Vatican City , France , Netherlands , Vietnam , French Polynesia , New Caledonia 
