Germany may not have enough hospital beds and ventilators to tackle its coronavirus outbreak , the head of the country 's disease control agency warned on Friday . 
' ' I am very happy that the ventilation beds and intensive care capacities have been increased , " Lothar Wieler , the head of the Robert Koch Institute , told reporters . 
" Still , I cannot be sure that these capacities are sufficient enough . 
" Personally , I have the opinion that they will not be enough and I am happy if I am wrong , " Wieler added . 
" The more ventilators and intensive care beds we have , the more lives we will be able to save and therefore I ask that we continue to ask that we increase the capacities as much as possible . ' ' Wieler went on to say that he believes ' ' more people will die of Covid 19 than reported . " 
Germany 's mortality has rate increased to 1.2 % , and Wieler warned against the assumption that the virus only affects older people -- pointing out that Germany 's youngest confirmed death was a 28 year old woman with a pre existing condition . 
Germany sent 50 ventilators to Spain to help that country battle its coronavirus outbreak , the German health minister said on Friday . 
" Especially in times of coronavirus we stick together . 
We wish the Spanish much strength in these times , " Jens Spahn said . 
Spain has been battling one of the worst outbreaks of Covid 19 anywhere in the world , passing 10,000 virus related deaths on Thursday . 
Only Italy has recorded more fatalities , and only Italy and the United States have had more confirmed cases , according to John Hopkins University . 
Meanwhile , a poll has shown that the vast majority of Germans approve of Angela Merkel 's response to the outbreak . 
About 72 % of Germans support the government ’s approach , according to the poll by Infratest Dimap . 
It also shows 93 % of respondents approve of the drastic social distancing measures introduced to try to contain the spread of the virus . 
Germany has implemented a " contact ban , " rather than a full nationwide lockdown . 
It has seen more than 84,000 confirmed cases , but its reported fatalities -- just over 1,100 -- have been lower than other major European countries . 
