President Trump and Dr . Anthony Fauci held what ’s become a relatively rare public event on Thursday afternoon : both men were in the same room with the cameras rolling . 
Trump and Fauci made an appearance at the American Red Cross National Headquarters , encouraging plasma donations from people who have recovered from coronavirus . 
During his remarks , Trump encouraged people to sign up to donate plasma " as soon as you can . " 
" We have a lot of people that would heal , would get better . 
As soon as you can , please , " he said . 
He also urged Americans to wash their hands , keep a 6 foot distance and wear a mask " when you cannot avoid crowded places . " 
" It just seems like so many things are taking place in crowded places , " the President , who has recently held events in crowded places , said . 
" We do not want that , " he added . 
In his comments , Fauci began by thanking the President for his " support of this very important program . " 
" An important part of the process of being together is helping each other , " he continued . 
" You know , when I can think of nothing more manifesting the helping of each other than someone donating from their experience of being ill and this is something that I think is part of the American spirit , and we should be proud of it and we should show it . 
So it 's a very important thing . 
It 's important part of the entire response to this outbreak . " 
On masks : Trump did not wear a mask at the roundtable , but did wear one as he met with a patient donating plasm prior to the event , a practice which US Surgeon General Jerome Adams tried to encourage . 
" I was in Miami just a few weeks ago when I promised them I would tell you this , " Adams said to the President . 
" I was in Trump country . 
And they told me to deliver you a message , Mr . President . 
They told me to tell you you look badass in a face mask . 
I promised them I would tell you that . 
Miami , I told the President he looks badass in a face mask . " 
