A Covid 19 outbreak among the Amish this spring showed the real need for public health officials to build trust among a community that typically limits engagement with the government . 
Despite the pandemic , the Amish community in the Greater Holmes County Area of Ohio continued to hold community gatherings . 
During the outbreak in May , there were at least six social gatherings , including a logistical meeting to plan church services , three church services , a wedding , and a funeral , US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Ohio state and county health officials wrote in the CDC ’s weekly report Thursday . 
The team said those gatherings likely contributed to the rapid spread of Covid 19 . 
Some community members also had misconceptions about what would protect them from infection . 
Some said they thought wearing a mask would cause them harm . 
Others thought if they took vitamins and herbs it would protect them . 
The local public health department learned about the outbreak after a couple tested positive in mid May . 
The husband , who had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , had to be hospitalized for a couple of days . 
Another adult family member with cancer who tested positive for Covid 19 died May 21 . 
Community leaders told the Wayne County Health Department that a number of people in the community had symptoms so the department set up testing at the local school . 
In total , 30 people tested positive for Covid 19 . 
The report suggests there may have been more cases , but the more traditional members of the community may not have gotten tested . 
The local health department interviewed some of the Amish at the testing site and learned about some of the misconceptions about the ways to stop the spread of the disease . 
Researchers also learned that the community did not have access to updated and trusted guidance . 
Most rarely , if ever , used the internet or email . 
Nonetheless , many understood the importance of social distancing and knew that coughing and sneezing could spread the virus . 
Wearing a mask was not socially or culturally acceptable , some members of the community said . 
Some were also reluctant about social distancing , because communal cultural practices were central to the Amish identity . 
The CDC said it is important for health departments to build trusting relationships with the Amish . 
The departments should use culturally sensitive language when they reach out to community leaders and emphasize the message that mitigation behaviors protect the family and the community . 
Health education materials should be shared through Amish newspapers and local radio stations . 
Access to testing needs to be convenient and timely . 
