CNN held a global town hall earlier on the facts and fears surrounding the coronavirus pandemic . 
The lineup included international correspondents , medical experts , political leaders and special guest Alicia Keys . 
Here are some of the highlights : There 's no proven treatment yet : While hundreds of trials are being planned , approved , and already underway to find a drug that can fight the virus , researchers have yet to find a drug that definitively works , said representatives from the World Health Organization and the US Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) . 
The virus arrived in the US early : Dr . Sara Cody , the public health director of California 's Santa Clara County , acknowledged that the coronavirus was likely circulating in the country a lot longer than experts first thought . 
It ca not be transmitted through food : There 's no evidence eating is a risk , and the American food supply is safe , said FDA Commissioner Dr . Stephen Hahn . 
It 's a respiratory illness : This means you ca not get sick from " eating " the virus ; the reason it 's risky to touch your eyes , nose , or mouth is because you might inhale the virus or get infected after touching the mucus membranes in those areas . 
Do not drink disinfectant : Regardless of what US President Donald Trump suggests , doctors are in agreement : ingesting bleach or other types of disinfectant is extremely dangerous and wo not kill the virus . 
This is a food crisis : With 26.5 million Americans unemployed , the US is facing a humanitarian food crisis that Congress and the White House need to address , said celebrity chef Jose Andres , whose program provides free meals to the needy . 
Powerful anthem : Alicia Keys debuted her new single " Good Job " during the town hall , which celebrates the everyday heroes of the pandemic . 
" There are heroes among us right now , you know , and this song really celebrates the fact that you 're doing an amazing job , " the 15 time Grammy winner said . 
You can watch the entire town hall here : 
