The daily positivity rate is above 3 % in New York City for the first time in months , according to New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio . 
However , the city uses the seven day rolling average to determine if schools should close . 
That number stands at 1.38 % citywide which is below the mark for school closures . 
The daily positivity rate is 3.25 % which is under the threshold of five percent . 
Nine zip codes with a serious problem are impacting the overall daily number according to the mayor who notes these are nine out of 146 zip codes in the city , but it ’s still a " cause for real concern , " he said Tuesday . 
The mayor provided the other daily metrics the city uses . 
There were 71 admitted to hospitals with suspected cases of Covid 19 which is under the 200 threshold , but the confirmed positive rate is 16.4 % . 
There are 338 new positive cases , which is under the threshold of 550 . 
Anyone not wearing a face covering will be offered one and anyone who refuses will be reminded they can be fined . 
If they still refuse , they will be fined starting today . 
Private schools and child care centers will close if they do not meet the Department of Education standards . 
Dr . Mitch Katz , President and CEO of NYC Health and Hospitals public system and who is from South Brooklyn , said the city is going to have to take action if it is not able to decrease the infections . 
Testing capacity will be increased by tomorrow with 11 mobile testing sites moved to the zip codes affected . 
Rapid testing capacity will be added tomorrow at community provider offices in Orthodox communities and at three Health and Hospital locations – one in Queens and two in Brooklyn . 
At least 350 personnel will be on the ground starting today including those form the Test and Trace corps and the city is conducting robocalls . 
Remember : These numbers were released by the city ’s public health agency , and may not line up exactly in real time with CNN ’s database drawn from Johns Hopkins University and the Covid Tracking Project . 
