Editor 's note : Dr . Terence Kealey is an adjunct scholar at the Cato Institute and a professor of clinical biochemistry at the University of Buckingham in the UK , where he served as vice chancellor until 2014 . 
The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own . 
South Korea , the US and the UK all reported their first Covid 19 cases around the same time : on January 20 , January 21 , and January 31 , respectively . 
How things unfolded from there , unfortunately for the US and UK , has been strikingly different . 
Today , South Korea is reporting fewer than 100 new cases a day , the UK is reporting around 4,000 new cases a day , and the US is reporting around 30,000 . 
But while numbers in South Korea have fallen , in the US and UK they have been rising exponentially Nonetheless , the great success story is South Korea , and we know how they did it : they tested . 
The timeline of the virus : On December 31 , 2019 , Chinese officials informed the World Health Organization they had identified an unknown pneumonia , and on January 10 , with impressive speed , Professor Zhang Yongzhen of Fudan University , Shanghai , published the virus 's RNA sequence -- which can be used as the basis of a diagnostic test . 
How South Korea responded : By February 4 , Kogene Biotech of Seoul had not only developed a test kit but had also had it approved by the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . 
And by February 10 , was reporting its findings on the first 2,776 people to have been tested . 
At that point , there were only 27 confirmed cases in South Korea , so -- in another impressive demonstration of speed -- the South Korean authorities tested each of them and , more importantly , isolated those who tested positive and monitored their contacts . 
How the US responded : In the US and many other countries , however , a lack of testing kits prohibited the identification and isolation of individuals , so whole populations and whole economies have had to close down instead . 
By comparison , South Korea has been spared that fate partly by the government 's response and partly by the swift reaction of its biotech industry . 
Read the full opinion here . 
