Home made face coverings need to be at least two layers and preferably three to curb the spread of Covid 19 , new research suggests . 
Experts found one layer of cotton T shirt material is fairly effective as a barrier against droplets expelled during speaking , but two are " significantly better at reducing the droplet spread caused by coughing and sneezing " . 
Three layers would be even better , the researchers said , and their study found surgical disposable masks offer the best protection of all . 
In England , the Department of Health has published guidance for the public on how to make a home made mask . 
It recommends " two or three 25cm x 25cm squares of cotton fabric " sewn together and attached to the ears with elastic . 
The UK government and the World Health Organisation ( WHO ) have been keen to advise people to make their own cloth face coverings in the hope surgical masks will be reserved for health workers . 
For the new study , published in the journal Thorax , experts from the University of New South Wales in Sydney , tested three types of masks . 
Their one layer face covering was made using a cotton T shirt material , the two layer covering was prepared by sewing two strips together , and the third was a surgical mask . 
A tailored LED lighting system and a high speed camera were used to capture the light scattered by droplets and aerosols expelled during speaking , coughing and sneezing while wearing the different types of mask . 
The volunteer who took part was healthy with no respiratory infection . 
Tissue paper was put up the nose to stimulate sneezing . 
The researchers concluded : " From the captured video it can be observed that , for speaking , a single layer cloth face covering reduced the droplet spread but a double layer covering performed better . 
" Even a single layer face covering is better than no face covering . 
" However , a double layer cloth face covering was significantly better at reducing the droplet spread caused by coughing and sneezing . 
" A surgical mask was the best among all the tested scenarios in preventing droplet spread from any respiratory emission . 
" These visualisations show the value of using face masks and the difference between types of masks . " 
