A CNN team arriving to the UK on Saturday experienced the lax and chaotic enforcement of a mandatory quarantine rule put into effect by the British government earlier this month . 
Anyone arriving in the UK is required to quarantine for 14 days , a rule that came into effect on June 8 . 
Passengers are required to provide their contact details , so authorities can ensure quarantine measures are enforced . 
On the day the program began , a spokesperson for Public Health England told CNN that a private company would be conducting spot checks with phone calls , rather than in person visits . 
There is a long list of exemptions from quarantine , including truckers and those who cross the Irish border . 
A CNN team traveling from Reykjavik , Iceland , at Luton Airport , north of London , was asked to fill in an electronic form on their phones before take off , and submit a long list of personal and contact information . 
Passengers filling out the form were given the option of being contacted only by text message , rather than a phone call , if they could provide a reason for the preference . 
The form was accessed by scanning a QR code , or by manually typing in a URL that featured a series of more than 50 random digits . 
On arrival , Luton Airport featured prominent signage advertising the requirements , but there was no verification by authorities of any information submitted in the form . 
Two agents from Border Force asked that passengers from two planes flash the electronic forms on the phones in order to proceed . 
A group of elderly passengers who had not filled out the form in advance was directed to a series of i Pads , where they were left to fill out the forms with no assistance . 
The UK government has said that quarantine measures were introduced in June precisely because other countries were opening up . 
Politicians said that reopenings presented a higher risk of new cases of coronavirus arriving from abroad . 
Several airlines , including British Airways , Easyjet and Ryanair , have launched a legal action against the quarantine rules , saying the restrictions " will have a devastating effect on British tourism and the wider economy and destroy thousands of jobs . " 
CNN 's Robert North , Vasco Cotovio and Joe Minihane contributed reporting . 
