The coronavirus vaccine developed by Astra Zeneca and Oxford University , which was approved on Wednesday in Britain , is unlikely to get a green light in the European Union in the next month , according to the European Medicines Agency ( EMA ) . 
The regulator , charged with overseeing vaccines ’ authorisation in the EU before they can be marketed , approved the Pfizer Bio NTech vaccine on 21 December . 
It is expected to rule on Moderna ’s vaccine on 6 January . 
But an EU ruling on the Astra Zeneca Oxford jab will take some time . 
" Additional scientific information on issues related to quality , safety and efficacy of the vaccine is deemed necessary to support the rigour required for a conditional marketing authorisation ( CMA ) and this has been requested from the company , " the EMA said in a statement . 
" Further information from the ongoing clinical trials is also expected from January . " 
The Amsterdam based agency earlier told AFP that it had not yet received any formal marketing authorisation and that it had set no timetable for approving the vaccine . 
The regulator ’s deputy executive director , Noel Walthion , told Belgian newspaper Het Nieuwsblad on Tuesday that a possible approval in January is " unlikely " . 
The Astra Zeneca Oxford vaccine is currently undergoing a " rolling review " which allows the EMA to examine safety and efficacy data as they are released , even before a formal application for authorisation is filed by the manufacturer . 
This procedure speeds up the evaluation of a marketing authorisation application once it is made , the EMA said . 
The agency said it is " aware that the UK MHRA has granted a temporary authorisation of supply of the vaccine in the emergency use setting , which is distinct from a marketing authorisation . " 
An Astra Zeneca spokesperson told AFP it " has submitted a full data package to support an application for conditional marketing authorisation for the Astra Zeneca Covid 19 vaccine to the European Medicines Agency . " 
The spokesperson added : " Astra Zeneca has been submitting data on a rolling basis and will continue to work closely with the EMA to support the start of a formal CMA application process . " 
