Eight US states are currently seeing their highest seven day averages of new coronavirus cases per day since the coronavirus pandemic began , according to a CNN analysis of data from Johns Hopkins University ( JHU ) . 
The eight states are : Arizona , California , Florida , Nevada , Oklahoma , South Carolina , Texas and Utah . 
Below is information about each of those states . 
This data includes new cases reported by JHU through June 18 : Arizona Arizona averaged about 1,740 new cases per day over the week ending June 18 , up about 45 % from the previous 7 day period . 
JHU data shows a significant increase in new reported cases in Arizona yesterday . 
California California averaged about 3,387 new cases per day over the last week , but it ’s important to note that the rate of new cases in the state is not increasing as quickly as in some of these other places . 
This seven day average is up roughly 12 % from the previous seven day period . 
The state saw an all time high in new reported cases yesterday , according to state health officials . 
The officials attributed the large number of cases to an increase in testing capacity and delayed testing results coming in from an earlier period , CNN reported . 
Florida Florida averaged about 2,408 new cases per day over the last week , up approximately 90 % from the previous 7 day period . 
CNN reported that Florida saw its highest number of new reported cases in a single day yesterday , according to the state health department . 
JHU data also shows a significant increase in new reported cases in Florida yesterday . 
Nevada Nevada averaged about 242 new cases per day over the last week , up roughly 26 % from the previous 7 day period . 
Oklahoma Oklahoma averaged about 247 new cases per day over the last week . 
This is up approximately 140 % from the previous 7 day period . 
Oklahoma saw a significant increase in new reported cases yesterday , according to JHU data . 
South Carolina South Carolina averaged about 727 new cases per day over the last week , which is an increase of about 26 % from the previous 7 day period . 
Texas Texas averaged about 2,657 new cases per day over the last week , up approximately 54 % from the previous 7 day period . 
Utah Utah averaged about 370 new cases per day over the last week . 
But it ’s important to note that even though this is the largest 7 day average of daily new cases for Utah , the percentage change is relatively flat – up just about 6 % – from the previous 7 day period . 
