Face masks worn at home can help to stop the spread of the novel coronavirus among people who live together , but it ’s only protective before someone starts showing symptoms , according to a study published Thursday in BMJ Global Health . 
Disinfecting surfaces regularly was also helpful at reducing spread , the study said . 
Researchers in China wanted to find out what would help slow the spread of the novel coronavirus in the one place where the most person to person transmission happens – at home , between family members . 
Earlier studies showed 70 % of human to human transmission was in families . 
The study included 124 families with 335 people . 
Each family had one lab confirmed case of Covid 19 sometime between late February and March . 
Usually families had three generations in one household . 
The family members had lived with the person who was infected up to four days before , and more than 24 hours after the patient ’s symptoms appeared . 
The infection spread to another 77 adults and children in 41 out of the 124 families , making the " attack rate " 23 % among families . 
Opening windows , keeping more than about three feet apart and using disinfectants on shared surfaces seemed to lower the risk of passing the virus on to family members , even in households that were considered crowded . 
If a person wore a face mask before they showed signs that they were sick , it was 79 % effective at reducing transmission . 
But once someone has symptoms , wearing masks does not seem to be protective in the home , according to the study . 
Disinfecting surfaces regularly was about 77 % effective at reducing the risk of people getting sick . 
The risk of catching Covid 19 from a family member was 18 times higher if they had close contact with that person , like when they shared a meal or sat together to watch TV . 
The risk was four times higher if the person who became ill had diarrhea . 
One limitation was that the study was completed using telephone interviews , which could result in recall bias among people who were interviewed . 
