A seemingly healthy 57 year old woman from California 's San Francisco Bay Area " suddenly died " in early February , becoming the first known United States death related to the coronavirus , the Los Angeles Times first reported on Wednesday . 
Patricia Dowd , who worked as a manager for a semiconductor company , " exercised routinely , watched her diet and took no medication , " the Times reported . 
Dowd ’s older brother Rick Cabello confirmed to CNN that she did not smoke and that she was in good health . 
Before Dowd was found dead on February 6 , " she had flu like symptoms for a few days , then appeared to recover , " the Times reported . 
Five days before she died , she called Cabello to tell him she could not make it to a family visit in Stockton , California . 
The Los Angeles Times reported that she had cancelled plans to go a weekend funeral . 
Dowd started working from home as her condition improved and had been in touch with a colleague around 8 a.m . on the day of her death . 
She was found dead about two hours later , according to the Times . 
Her sudden death was a shock to family members . 
They all believed it was a heart attack , Cabello said . 
New details : On Tuesday , Santa Clara County announced that tissue samples for two people who died in February came back positive for the coronavirus . 
Both individuals died in their residences in Santa Clara County -- one was a 57 year old woman who died on February 6 and the other was a 69 year old man who died on February 17 . 
The county did not identify or provide any more details of the deaths other than the gender and ages . 
In a news conference on Wednesday morning , Santa Clara County Department of Public Health director Dr . Sara Cody said neither case had a recent travel history that would have exposed them to the virus and that they presume each case represents community transmission . 
Cabello said Dowd was a frequent world traveler . 
A family member told the Times that she had planned to travel to China later this year and went abroad " multiple times a year to different global locations . " 
The Times also reported that Dowd had a history of foreign travel , as did her co workers at Lam Research . 
Dowd was " hardworking , loyal , and caring , " Cabello told the Times . 
In a tribute wall set up for Dowd by the Cusimano Family Colonial Mortuary , a coworker wrote , " I 'll always remember the kindness and generosity of her spirit . 
She was genuinely caring and had an amazing energy . " 
