A White House coronavirus task force report sent to officials in the state of Iowa this week warned of dire new case increases across rural and urban areas and called for a mask mandate , the closure of bars , and a plan from universities as the pandemic intensifies in the Midwest . 
CNN has obtained the nine page Aug . 30 report for the state , first reported by the Des Moines Register , from the Iowa Department of Public Health . 
The task force releases state by state reports each week to governors ’ offices , and has so far declined to make them publicly available . 
The report says that Iowa is in the task force defined " red zone " and warns that the state has the highest rate of cases in the US , which increased by 77.4 % from the previous week . 
The report offers recommendations to Iowa , including strongly encouraging a mask mandate . 
Iowa does not currently mandate masks . 
" Mask mandates across the state must be in place to decrease transmission , " the report says . 
It also says bars " must be closed " and indoor dining " must be restricted to 50 % of normal capacity in yellow zone and 25 % of normal capacity in red zone counties and metro areas . " 
In the report , the task force points to universities as a major factor contributing to the virus ’ spread . 
" University towns need a comprehensive plan that scales immediately for testing all returning students with routine surveillance testing to immediately identify new cases and outbreaks and isolate and quarantine , " the report says . 
The three counties with the highest numbers of cases also have large student populations : Story County , home to Iowa State , and Johnson County , home to University of Iowa , as well as Polk County , which contains Iowa 's largest metro area , Des Moines The report comes less than two weeks before Iowa State University will welcome crowds to its stadium for its season opener football game . 
Though social distancing will be observed , a letter from the school ’s athletic director estimated " there will be approximately 25,000 fans at the first game . " 
The task force report suggests red zone counties should limit gatherings to 10 or fewer people . 
The test positivity rate for Iowa State students in the second week of testing is 28.8 % . 
At the University of Iowa , there have been 935 self reported cases in students and employees since the semester began August 18 . 
There are also concerns , per the task force ’s report , about spread in nursing homes , calling the number of nursing homes with more than one resident testing positive " concerning . " 
CNN has reached out to Iowa Gov . 
Kim Reynolds ’ office for comment as to whether she plans to heed these recommendations . 
Reynolds , a top ally of President Trump , spoke at the Republican National Convention last week , and while she touted the administration ’s response to the derecho storm earlier this month , she did not mention the pandemic . 
