Germany will extend its current coronavirus restrictions through to early January unless there is a dramatic drop in infections - something that is not expected , chancellor Angela Merkel said . 
Speaking after a meeting with the heads of Germany ’s 16 states , Merkel said the measures introduced in early November , including limits on private gatherings and the closure of restaurants , leisure and cultural facilities , cannot be lifted given current infection rates . 
The curbs will be continued " until 20 December first but we assume that ... due to the very high incidence of infection , restrictions will have to apply until the beginning of January unless we have an unexpected decrease , " Merkel said . 
The agreement means continued closures for restaurants , bars , sporting facilities and cultural venues in Europe ’s biggest economy , though schools and shops will remain open . 
From 1 December , private gatherings will be limited to five people from two households - down from 10 people currently , though children are exempted from the new rule . 
Trains will also expand their seating capacity , in order to better ensure distancing between passengers . 
Fireworks will be banned on certain public squares to prevent people from gathering in large groups on New Year ’s Eve in particular . 
Germany will also seek a deal with European partners to close ski slopes through to early January , to prevent the virus spreading further . 
" I will say this openly that it wo not be easy , but we will try , " Merkel said . 
The measures were agreed after more than seven hours of tense talks , with some less affected regions calling for lighter restrictions . 
The number of new infections in Germany has plateaued over the past two weeks , with October ’s exponential growth brought to a halt . 
However , health officials have sounded the alarm over rapidly filling intensive care units and an inability to track the source of transmission while rates remain high . 
In order to ease restrictions , the infection rate would have to come down to below 50 new cases per 100,000 inhabitants per week , Merkel said - a far cry from the current seven day incidence of almost 140 . 
" The steeply rising curve has become a flat one , but this is only a partial success . 
We can by no means be satisfied with this partial success , " she said . 
Germany has registered a total of 961,320 coronavirus cases and 14,771 deaths , according to the Robert Koch Institute disease control centre . 
Wednesday saw 18,633 new cases and a record 410 deaths . 
