States are negotiating to get their shares of any coronavirus vaccine that may be distributed , once one or more are authorized by the US Food and Drug Administration , Illinois ’ state health officer told CNN Wednesday . 
Dr . Ngozi Ezike , director of the Illinois Department of Public Health , said she asked for 400,000 doses of vaccine from the federal government but has been told they will get fewer . 
" We have had a readjustment of the numbers that were quoted to us and I have talked to other state health officials – all of them have a proportional decrease in their counts , " Ezike told CNN ’s Nia Malika Henderson on " Inside Politics . " 
" We are still waiting to see answers , and understand maybe why that is , but it seems that the initial allotment we thought would be ready to go out – that number has decreased . 
So as a result , all the states are going to get a smaller amount . " 
The FDA has yet to authorize any vaccine but has scheduled a meeting for Dec . 10 for its advisers to consider Pfizer and Bio NTech ’s vaccine . 
Federal officials have said they would start rolling out vaccine within 24 hours of emergency use authorization , and predict they would have 40 million doses ready for the country in December . 
In the meantime , hospitals are filling up and staffing is short , Ezike said . 
" We have hospitals reaching out , saying that they have had large number of staff that are either infected themselves or on quarantine , " she said . 
" There are numbers of individuals in the emergency room that are waiting to get a bed to be transferred for the continuation of care . 
So we are starting to see that . 
So we really need to stop the number of infections on the front end so that we can give a break to our amazing hospital workers who did this in the first wave and are starting this again . " 
She hopes people stay home Thursday for Thanksgiving . 
" I ’m still making the urgent plea imploring people to reconsider their plans . 
If they were planning a larger gathering , if they were planning plan on mixing households , mixing extended family , people who are not already within your home , we do not want to infect the ones we love , " Ezike said . 
" We want to protect the ones we love and we can do that by sacrificing the way we do Thanksgiving . 
We ’re not cancelling Thanksgiving but we do need to transform it into something that respects what Covid can do and has done , and not make this Thanksgiving holiday one that we will regret in years to come because of what happened at this day of Thanksgiving . " 
