The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention updated its guidance for people who are isolating at home with Covid 19 to prevent transmission of the virus . 
They offer one strategy based on time and symptoms , and another approach based on testing . 
Someone who has tested positive for Covid 19 and has symptoms may discontinue isolation 10 days after the symptoms first appeared so long as 24 hours have passed since the last fever without the use of fever reducing medications , and if symptoms such as coughing and shortness of breath have improved . 
People with Covid 19 symptoms isolating at home and with access to tests can leave isolation if a fever has passed without the use of medication , if there is an improvement in symptoms , and if tests taken more than 24 hours apart come back negative , according to the guidelines . 
The revised guidelines were posed online Friday . 
The CDC also updated guidance for people who are in isolation after testing positive for Covid 19 but who do not have symptoms . 
The agency recommended two options : a time based strategy and a test based strategy . 
A person without symptoms can discontinue isolation 10 days after the first positive test and if they have not subsequently developed symptoms . 
Viral shedding means a person can pass the virus to someone else . 
If a person develops symptoms , then the symptom based or test based strategy should be used , according to the guidelines . 
People who have tested positive for Covid 19 and are asymptomatic can also discontinue isolation if the results of two tests taken more than 24 hours apart come back negative . 
The decision of ending isolation " should be made in the context of local circumstances , " the CDC advised . 
Health care workers who are in close contact with vulnerable populations and people who are immunocompromised — which could prolong viral shedding after recovery — are recommended to isolate for longer . 
The CDC noted the updated guidance may " appear in conflict " with the recommendations for people known to have been exposed to the virus . 
The agency recommends a 14 day quarantine after exposure , based on the time it takes to develop illness from the virus . 
Previous guidance from May 3 had extended the home isolation period from seven to 10 days since symptoms first appeared or after the first positive test . 
The CDC said this update was made " based on evidence suggesting a longer duration of viral shedding . " 
The agency warned these recommendations " will prevent most , but cannot prevent all , instances of secondary spread . " 
" The risk of transmission after recovery is likely substantially less than that during illness ; recovered persons will not be shedding large amounts of virus by this point , if they are shedding at all , " the agency said . 
