Cities must move to the frontline of efforts to fight gender inequality , which has grown worse in the coronavirus pandemic , said six mayors from three continents as they joined forces in a new network to advance women ’s rights . 
Around the world , women ’s jobs , unpaid labour , health and safety have been upended by the impacts of Covid 19 and need critical attention , said the leaders of City Hub and Network for Gender Equity ( Change ) . 
The network aims to promote and share innovative projects focused on combating gender inequality with city mayors around the world . 
" Local governments can and should lead , " said Los Angeles mayor Eric Garcetti , the network ’s first chair , who joined the mayors of Barcelona , Freetown , Mexico City , London and Tokyo in an online webinar with the media . 
Data from the World Economic Forum shows that at the current pace , the gender pay gap will not close for 257 years , he said . 
" We must act with urgency , " Garcetti said . 
" We ca not allow this pandemic to set us back further . " 
Women ’s jobs have been 1.8 times more vulnerable to being lost in the pandemic than men ’s , said a study by consultants Mc Kinsey & amp ; 
Co , while government data showed of the 1.1 million US workers who dropped out of the workforce in September , 80 % were women . 
In Los Angeles , every city department must have a gender action plan and show progress on tackling gender inequality , such as appointing women to boards and top positions , closing the gender pay gap and ensuring more girls use public spaces like sports fields , Garcetti said . 
Ada Colau , the first female mayor of Barcelona who called her administration a " feminist government " , singled out unpaid care work of children and ageing relatives . 
" We must fight against the inequality and injustice that women still suffer and end the invisibility of care work – a burden which is mostly borne by women , " Colau said . 
London ’s mayor , Sadiq Khan , who called himself as a " proud feminist " , said a report found in England , mothers were 47 % more likely than fathers to have lost or left their jobs in the pandemic . 
With women accounting for eight out of 10 people in low paid jobs , London ’s government has invested £ 3m to " re skill " and " up skill " women for better paying jobs , he said . 
" I want gender equity hardwired into everything we do , not simply child care , though important it is , but from housing to a hiring policy to recruitment retention from policing to the environment , " Khan said . 
Mexico City mayor Claudia Sheinbaum said a key priority is combating domestic violence that has worsened during lockdown . 
The city government has launched a network of 100 female lawyers who help women file reports of domestic abuse and provide free legal advice , she said . 
Two thirds of the city ’s 50,000 small businesses loans provided since the pandemic started have gone to help women become economically independent , Sheinbaum said . 
In Sierra Leone ’s capital , Yvonne Aki Sawyerr , the first female mayor of Freetown , said she was focused on stemming the world ’s highest maternal mortality rates and supporting working mothers with child care . 
Last month , Freetown ’s government launched a digital mobile phone literacy programme aimed at women and opened the city ’s first free day care for young children of market traders , most of whom are women , she said . 
