The UK government has denied British media reports that the publication of its review into how the coronavirus pandemic has affected BAME ( Black and Minority Ethnic ) communities has been delayed because of protests in the United States over the death of George Floyd . 
The report , analyzing how different factors -- including ethnicity , gender and obesity -- can impact on people ’s health outcomes from Covid 19 , had been due for publication by the end of May , according to Public Health England . 
It was commissioned by England ’s Chief Medical Officer Chris Whitty in April , amid fears that the coronavirus pandemic is " disproportionately " affecting black and ethnic minority communities . 
In response to CNN questions about why the report has been delayed , a Department of Health and Social Care spokesperson said in a statement : " It is not true to say this has been delayed due to global events , " the spokesperson added . 
UK opposition leader , Labour 's Keir Starmer , on Tuesday called on the government to " stop the excuses " and " publish the review , " in a post on Twitter . 
" BAME communities have been disproportionately affected by Covid 19 . 
We need the findings of this review published and action taken now , " he said . 
Labour 's Shadow Secretary for Women and Equalities , Marsha De Cordova , urged the government to name a date for publication , saying " its findings could save lives . " 
" It is unacceptable to delay the release of a report into the unequal suffering of the BAME community on the basis of global events that relate to the suffering of black communities around the world . " 
At the beginning of May , analysis by the London based Institute of Fiscal Studies ( IFS ) found ethnic minorities in England and Wales were dying from coronavirus at far higher rates than their white peers . 
The think tank found that after eliminating age and geography , people from black African backgrounds were 3.7 times as likely to die in hospital from the disease than their white British counterparts . 
Death rates for those from Pakistani backgrounds were 2.9 times higher than the white British group , while Bangladeshi fatalities were twice as high . 
The IFS said the British study highlighted " stark inequalities " between different ethnic groups in England and Wales . 
A University College London analysis of National Health Service data about patients with a positive Covid 19 test who died in hospitals in England from March 1 to April 21 found that the average risk of dying in hospital from the virus was around two to three times higher for BAME groups in England , when compared to the general population . 
