The coronavirus outbreak is continuing to spread across the globe , with cases reported in every continent except Antarctica . 
In Asia , South Korea reached a grim milestone on Friday of more than 2,000 cases after it reported over 500 new infections for the second consecutive day . 
Here 's what you should know : The latest numbers : There are more than 83,000 cases around the world , including over 2,850 deaths . 
The vast majority of these are in mainland China , which has reported 78,824 cases and 2,788 deaths . 
The deaths : Outside of mainland China , 71 virus related deaths have been recorded : Iran : 26 Italy 17 South Korea : 13 Japan : 9 Hong Kong and France : 2 each The Philippines and Taiwan : 1 each South Korea spike : The East Asian country reported 571 coronavirus cases on Friday , bringing the national total to 2,337 cases -- the largest outbreak outside of mainland China . 
It has reported 13 deaths . 
Many of the cases are linked to a religious group in the country 's south . 
More cases in Italy : At least 650 people have tested positive for coronavirus in Italy , officials said . 
Across Europe , at least 11 countries now have confirmed cases of the virus , with many of the patients having visited the Lombardy region at the center of Italy 's outbreak . 
Stock markets plunge : A historic fall in US stocks on Thursday has caused shockwaves through Asia Pacific markets today , with drops in major exchanges across the region . 
It followed a record drop in the United States as the Dow dropped 1,191 points on Thursday , in its worst one day point drop in history , while the S&P 500 posted its worst day since 2011 . 
Coronavirus in Africa : The first confirmed novel coronavirus case in Nigeria is an Italian citizen who traveled to Lagos . 
Nigeria is the third African nation to report the virus , and the first in sub Saharan Africa . 
The others are Egypt and Algeria , which both have one case each . 
Evacuations from North Korea : A plan is in the works to evacuate quarantined foreign diplomats from Pyongyang , North Korea , a source inside the country tells CNN . 
The date of the evacuation flight has not been confirmed , but the source says it will likely fly from Pyongyang to Vladivostok , Russia . 
Countries report first cases : Lithuania , Belarus and New Zealand reported their first cases overnight . 
The Lithuanian patient is a woman who is experiencing " mild symptoms . " 
The Belarus case is a student from Iran , while New Zealand 's case is " a person in their 60s , recently returned from Iran . " 
Meanwhile , France reported two new cases and Hong Kong one case on Friday . 
Artists cancel gigs : K pop group BTS have canceled four shows in Seoul in April , and American rock band Green Day have called off their upcoming Asia tour over the coronavirus . 
Other closures : Hyundai Motor is suspending the operation of a plant in Ulsan , South Korea after one of its employees tested positive for the virus . 
Meanwhile Tokyo 's Disneyland and Disney Sea are closing for two weeks because of the virus . 
