More than 22 million people have been infected with coronavirus worldwide since the pandemic began , and countries around the world are at different points in the fight against the virus . 
Here 's a look at where the pandemic stands across the world : Africa : South Africa is , by far and away , the hardest hit in Africa on the continent . 
Its confirmed case count is approaching 200,000 , and rising fast . 
Western Cape is now in the middle of the peak of its coronavirus surge . 
Asia : The Chinese city of Wuhan was once was ground zero in the pandemic . 
Now , it appears to have moved on from the virus , as thousands of revelers gathered in an open air water park for an electronic music festival — without any masks or social distancing measures in sight . 
But in Japan , coronavirus fatigue is fueling defiance in Tokyo , where many feel their leaders have only done the bare minimum to stop the novel coronavirus pandemic , even as the case count rises . 
Australia : The country has secured a deal with drugmaker Astra Zeneca for a potential Covid 19 vaccine that it will offer to all citizens for free . 
Remember : The deal is still in early stages , with both parties having signed a Letter of Intent . 
Europe : Spain , France , Greece and Germany are among the countries that have seen worrying spikes in new Covid 19 cases in recent weeks , a consequence of going back to — sort of — normal after months of lockdowns . 
North America : The first coronavirus vaccine trial in the US is moving along at a good clip , but officials are " very concerned " that the low number of minorities in the trial may delay the drug from getting to the marketplace . 
Meanwhile , Just days before American classes are slated to resume , colleges across the country are finding it may be next to impossible to create a coronavirus free environment on campus . 
South America : Brazil is in the grips of a deadly virus , with the world 's second highest number of Covid 19 cases and deaths in the world — and yet the health ministry continues to be run on an interim basis by an army general with no medical experience . 
Cases have skyrocketed across Latin America , and an expert has said what happens this month could be the key in the region 's fight against the virus . 
