On December 30 , Li Wenliang dropped a bombshell in his medical school alumni group on the popular Chinese messaging app We Chat : seven patients from a local seafood market had been diagnosed with an illness similar to severe acute respiratory syndrome ( SARS ) and quarantined in his hospital . 
" I only wanted to remind my university classmates to be careful , " Li said . 
But within hours , screenshots of his messages -- containing his name -- went viral . 
Soon after , Li became one of several whistleblower medics targeted by Wuhan police . 
From an intensive care bed in hospital , Li told CNN he was confirmed Saturday to have contracted the virus . 
His diagnosis has sparked outrage across China , where a backlash is growing against state censorship around the illness and an initial delay in warning the public about the deadly virus . 
Here 's a look at how things unfolded : December 30 : Li Wenliang sends the warning message to his former classmates . 
That same day , the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission warned the city 's medical institutions of an " unknown pneumonia " linked to a seafood market . 
December 31 : Wuhan 's health authorities discuss the outbreak in an emergency meeting , and alert the World Health Organization . 
Li is summoned by officials to explain how he knew about the cases . 
January 3 : Li is reprimanded by police for " spreading rumors online " and " severely disrupting social order , " and asked to sign a statement promising not to commit further " unlawful acts . " 
January 10 : Li begins coughing and develops a fever after unwittingly treating a patient with the Wuhan coronavirus . 
January 12 : Li is hospitalized , and is admitted to the intensive care unit in the following days . 
January 20 : President Xi Jinping orders " resolute efforts to curb the spread " of the virus -- the first time he publicly addresses the outbreak . 
January 23 : Wuhan , the epicenter of the outbreak , is placed under lockdown . 
January 28 : China 's Supreme Court criticizes Wuhan police for punishing the " rumormongers . " 
The next day , Wuhan police issued a statement saying the targeted people had only committed " particularly minor " misdemeanors . 
February 1 : Li tests positive for coronavirus . 
Read more about Li and the public uproar here . 
