Cancer patients with Covid 19 treated with a drug combination promoted by US President Donald Trump to counter coronavirus were three times more likely to die within 30 days than those who got either drug alone , U.S . researchers said . 
The preliminary results suggest doctors may want to refrain from prescribing the decades old malaria treatment hydroxychloroquine with the antibiotic azithromycin for these patients until more study is done , researchers said . 
" Treatment with hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin were strongly associated with increased risk of death , " Dr . Howard Burris , president of the American Society of Clinical Oncology ( ASCO ) , said in a briefing with reporters on the results . 
The drug combination initially was thought to help Covid 19 patients , but recent data has cast doubt . 
The preliminary findings , to be presented this week at ASCO ’s virtual scientific meeting , show that the combination may pose a significant risk to cancer patients . 
" Taking the combination gives a three times increased risk of dying within 30 days of any cause , " Dr . Jeremy Warner of Vanderbilt University Medical System told reporters . 
Trump , who has often promoted hydroxychloroquine , in a March 21 tweet called the combination potentially " one of the biggest game changers in the history of medicine . " 
That was based on a study of fewer than 40 patients in the International Journal of Antimicrobial Agents . 
More recent studies have shown little or no benefit and increased risks . 
Warner and colleagues analysed data on 925 patients with cancer who became infected with the coronavirus between March and April . 
Thirteen percent of the patients died within 30 days of their diagnosis . 
Overall , patients whose cancers were actively progressing at the time of infection were five times more likely to die within 30 days than those who were in remission or had no current evidence of cancer . 
In the trial , 180 patients were taking hydroxychloroquine in combination with azithromycin , and 90 were taking hydroxychloroquine alone . 
The U.S . Food and Drug Administration has allowed healthcare providers to prescribe the drugs for Covid 19 through an emergency use authorisation , but has not approved the treatment . 
The governments of France , Italy and Belgium moved on Wednesday to halt the use of hydroxychloroquine for Covid 19 patients following a World Health Organization decision on Monday to pause a large trial of the drug due to safety concerns . 
