California continues to see unprecedented spread of the coronavirus with hospitalizations surging 77 % and intensive care admissions swelling by 55 % over the past two weeks , Gov . 
Gavin Newsom announced Monday . 
California added 8,837 new coronavirus cases to start the week , well below the state ’s seven day average of 11,591 . 
New case counts are typically lower on Monday because of reporting lags over the weekend . 
People between the ages of 18-49 account for about 60 % of all cases , according to data provided by Newsom , and the 14 day positivity rate stands at 5.8 % . 
About 265,000 tests were conducted in the state on Saturday , higher than the average of 198,000 . 
California has millions of personal protective equipment supplies at the ready and has 11 surge facilities available which can add nearly 2,000 beds within a matter of a few days , Newsom said . 
While calling the latest vaccine news " encouraging , " Newsom cautioned mass vaccinations are not expected in California until next spring or summer . 
Instead , Newsom suggested widespread vaccinations will start ramping up in March through July . 
California has a strong vaccine network already in place and Newsom anticipates the Covid vaccine will be distributed along that same framework . 
" Current planning for Phase 1a ( is ) well on the way , " Newsom said , adding that Phase Two of the vaccine plan will likely come about in January . 
Delivering his comments remotely from home where he is quarantining with his family following a recent Covid 19 exposure , Newsom said , " I feel perfectly healthy , " though he seemed to have a somewhat raspy voice , and coughed a couple of times . 
He quickly acknowledged the coughs and blamed tea getting caught in his throat " and nothing more . " 
A California Highway Patrol officer who was infected with Covid 19 had close contact with three of Newsom ’s four children , the governor revealed over the weekend . 
Everyone in the household has been tested , he said . 
Each has tested negative . 
Additionally , a classmate of one of the governor ’s children has been infected and the school has " paused " its in person teaching . 
" Being quarantined with children is challenging , " Newsom said expressing empathy to those who have found themselves in the same position . 
Newsom and his family have been officially under quarantine since Sunday . 
Note : These numbers were released by the California Department of Public Health and may not line up exactly in real time with CNN ’s database drawn from Johns Hopkins University and the Covid Tracking Project . 
