Israeli media is reporting around 15 Israeli citizens are on the cruise ship . 
The public broadcaster , Kan Radio , interviewed one of the Israeli passengers on board . 
Q : Hello Nicole Ben David . 
We ’re calling to ask how you guys are managing while stranded and in quarantine at sea . 
" We ’re well . 
A bit confused , a bit worried but , all in all , we ’re doing well . 
We were supposed to disembark yesterday and to finish our 15 day tour . 
They informed us that it seems that we have an epidemic . 
They examined all of us . 
This morning they informed us that they had found ten people who were infected . 
As of 6:30 this morning , we ’ve been asked not to leave our rooms . 
We ’re inside the rooms . 
They ’ve given us food and beverages . 
They gave us free internet access beginning yesterday or the day before , when they announced that they were beginning the examinations . 
This morning they informed us that we were going to have to remain on board the ship for at least 14 days in quarantine . 
It is not clear to us whether we ’re going to have to remain in our rooms for 14 days or on board the ship . 
For the time being , we ’re in our rooms and we ’re not allowed to leave them . " 
Q : Are any of the people who were diagnosed as being infected with coronavirus Israeli ? 
" They have not given us information about who the people who got sick are . 
Out of the Israelis , we ’re a family with ten people , and I know that there are another two [ Israeli ] couples . 
We saw them completing the tour . 
As far as I can tell , none of the Israelis have been infected . " 
Q : How anxious are you , finding yourselves quarantined inside a cabin on board a ship out at sea ? 
That must be an unpleasant experience . 
" We ’re trying to keep our sense of humour and our cool . 
This is just the first day . 
As long as we ’re healthy , and are not sick , and we ’re getting food and beverages and the TV works … we ’re trying to remain optimistic and to remain calm . 
" To tell you that this is not something that makes me anxious ? 
It does make me anxious . 
Yes , it does . 
But we do not really have much in the way of choices . " 
