The European Union : European leaders have banned non essential travel to the EU for 30 days . 
United States : US Canada border crossing limits are expected . 
Travel from the UK and Ireland suspended as well as the 26 countries in Europe 's the Schengen Area free movement zone . 
Travelers from China and Iran in the last 14 days are also not allowed to enter . 
Australia : Australia requires " all people " arriving in the country to self quarantine for 14 days . 
Travelers who have been in China , Iran , South Korea or Italy in the last 14 days are not allowed to enter or transit for 14 days . 
Cambodia : A ban on foreign nationals arriving from Italy , Germany , Spain , France and the US for 30 days from March 17 . 
Canada : Entry is denied to people who are not Canadian citizens , US citizens or permanent residents . 
US Canada border crossing limits are expected . 
Cape Verde : From March 17 a three week suspension of all incoming flights from Portugal and all EU countries affected by the pandemic , and from the US , Brazil , Senegal and Nigeria . 
China : All international arrivals to Beijing must undergo a mandatory 14 day quarantine at designated facilities and at their own cost . 
Arrivals from Iran , Italy , Japan or Korea and traveling to Beijing , Guangzhou or Shanghai are subject to quarantine for 14 days . 
Shanghai has listed 12 countries from which arriving travelers will be quarantined for 14 days . 
Colombia : Entry denied to people who are not Colombian citizens , permanent residents or diplomats . 
Czech Republic : Visitors from China , South Korea , Iran , Italy , Spain , Austria , Germany , Switzerland , Sweden , UK , Norway , Denmark and France , will be banned . 
Outbound travel to high risk countries is also banned . 
Egypt : Flights in and out of Egyptian airports suspended for two weeks starting March 19 . 
Germany : Shut its borders with Austria , Switzerland , France , Luxembourg and Denmark . 
Goods and commuters will be exempt from the ban . 
Haiti : Beginning midnight local time on March 16 , Haiti is suspending flights from Europe , Canada , the Dominican Republic and Latin America for two weeks . 
Hong Kong : Starting March 19 , Hong Kong will require all arriving travelers from foreign countries to be quarantined for 14 days at home . 
Hungary : Closed its borders to non nationals . 
India : All travelers from the EU , Iceland , Liechtenstein , Norway , Switzerland , Turkey and the UK are banned from entering . 
All tourist visas are suspended and a 14 day quarantine is enforced on all travelers . 
Japan : Banning entry on passengers who have been in affected regions of China , South Korea or Italy within the last 14 days Malaysia : Citizens are banned from traveling abroad , with foreign tourists and visitors restricted from entering the country . 
Morocco : Suspended all international flights to and from its territory " until further notice . " 
New Zealand : All travelers , including New Zealand citizens and residents , entering the country will be required to " self isolate " for 14 days . 
The only exemptions are the Pacific Islands . 
Peru : From March 16 , flights from and to Europe and Asia are suspended for 30 days . 
Philippines : Cebu Pacific is canceling all flights -- domestic and international -- from March 19 through April 14 . 
In Luzon all mass public transportation has been suspended . 
Russia : Passengers who have been in China , France , Germany , South Korea or Spain and are planning to stay in Moscow must report themselves to the authorities by phone and stay self isolated for 14 days . 
Saudi Arabia : Apart from Saudi nationals , passengers who have transited through or have been in 30 countries and territories in the past 14 days are not allowed to enter . 
See the list here . 
South Korea : Visitors who have been in China 's Hubei Province in the past 14 days , and passport holders from that region , are not permitted entry . 
Spain : A state of emergency has already been declared in Spain and restrictions on travel in and out of the country are expected . 
Several Spain bound airplanes were turned back to the UK midair . 
Sri Lanka : The South Asian nation has suspended all flights arriving into the country for two weeks , effective midnight today . 
Bolivia : International and national flights into Bolivia will be suspended starting Friday . 
The country 's borders will be closed from Thursday , with only Bolivian citizens , residents , and trade allowed to enter . 
Thailand : Suspended its visa exemption policies for travelers from Hong Kong , South Korea and Italy , while visa on arrival has been stopped for 18 countries . 
See the list here . 
Turkey : Halted travel to and from 9 European countries : Germany , Spain , France , Austria , Norway , Denmark , Sweden , Belgium and the Netherlands . 
Nationals of those countries are not allowed to enter the country . 
Vietnam : Travelers who have been in the 26 European countries in the Schengen Area , plus the UK , within the past 14 days will not be permitted to enter or transit . 
Visas upon arrival will also no longer be issued for all foreign nationals See the full list here . 
