Matt Hancock , the UK 's Health Secretary , proudly announced on Friday that the country had hit an ambitious coronavirus testing target that it had set itself at the beginning of the month . 
On April 2 , after weeks of criticism that the UK was lagging behind its European counterparts like Germany on testing , Hancock told the nation that he was " setting the goal of 100,000 tests per day , by the end of this month . 
That is the goal and I am determined that we will get there . " 
Today , Hancock said from that same podium that the UK had beaten that goal by more than 22,000 . 
Striking an upbeat tone , Hancock said : " I knew it was an audacious goal , but we needed an audacious goal . " 
Critics might point out that the goal was not the only thing to come out of Hancock 's mouth that could be called audacious . 
In the numbers counted , thousands of tests have been sent out to members of the public , but not necessarily returned . 
Jonathon Ashworth , the opposition Labour party 's shadow health secretary , has already issued a statement , accusing the government of fiddling the numbers . 
" Increasing testing is an important milestone . 
But many would have expected the 100,000 promise to have been met by actually carrying out testing , not simply because 39,000 kits had been mailed out . " 
The issue of testing did not need to become so political . 
When the UK gave in to pressure to reverse its March 12 decisions to abandon mass community testing on April 2 , it did not need to set itself a specific target or a specific deadline . 
Indeed , it seems very unlikely that any scientific or medical advice would have produced a round number like 100,000 or a neat date such as the end of a month . 
These promises were based on political choices made by the government and it is entirely reasonable that critics expected the target to be met . 
It is , however , also reasonable for critics to point out that the date and the number of tests carried out is entirely arbitrary and what really matters is a coherent purpose for those tests being carried out — such as rolling out a contact tracing program . 
So , while the UK government can be proud of its extraordinary expansion of testing in such a short period of time — and no one can deny that more testing is undeniably a positive thing — it 's reasonable that critics would find any backslapping for simply keeping its own promise somewhat unedifying . 
