India has been under a nationwide lockdown since March 25 -- and it 's set to lift on Sunday . 
The lockdown has closed state borders and public transport , allowing only the transit of essential goods like food supplies and medical equipment . 
This has also led to other problems , like thousands of migrant workers stranded with no job , no income , and no mode of transportation to get home . 
Here 's how the lockdown will be lifted : Movement restrictions loosened : State borders will reopen , and asymptomatic migrant workers , students , pilgrims or tourists will be able to return to their home states . 
This comes after the Indian Supreme Court asked the government to respond to the problem of stranded migrant workers . 
There will still be checks : Travelers will be screened before boarding buses to depart and upon arrival . 
Local health authorities will assess their status and determine if they need home or institutional quarantine . 
States are arranging transport : Maharashtra , Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have begun arranging dozens of buses to bring back thousands of students and migrant workers from other states . 
There will be new guidelines : It does not mean a full reopening , and new lockdown guidelines will come into effect the next day -- Sunday , May 4 . 
But there will be " considerable relaxations " in many districts , said a Home Ministry spokesperson . 
Some states are continuing lockdown : Even if the federal government lifts the nationwide lockdown , states can implement their own individual measures . 
Punjab has extended its lockdown for another two weeks , though some restrictions will be relaxed in low risk areas . 
Other states are relaxing : Earlier this month , states like Maharashtra , Uttar Pradesh and Kerala had already relaxed restrictions for agricultural and farming activities , as well as opening some manufacturing operations in low risk or uninfected areas . 
India has recorded at least 33,050 confirmed coronavirus cases , including 1,074 deaths , according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare . 
