Christina Kerby is a passenger from the Westerdam , the cruise ship that was stuck at sea for days as fears of the coronavirus grew and several ports refused permission for the vessel to dock -- even though no passenger had tested positive for the virus . 
Kerby is now in a hotel in the Cambodian capital Phnom Penh , after Cambodia allowed the ship to dock , and waiting to hear if she and her mother will be able to get on a flight back home to the US . 
" I ’m a pragmatic person and I do not want to rush things . 
I want those assurances along the way that it ’s safe for me to travel , " she said . 
" I have been doing my best to make the best of it . 
We are in a beautiful 5 star hotel in Cambodia -- there 's not much to complain about ! " 
Uncertainty over getting home Throwing a spanner in the works is that on Saturday , one of the ship 's passengers tested positive for the coronavirus during a stopover in Malaysia . 
The 83 year old American woman had been on the first charter flight taking 143 Westerdam passengers to Malaysia , from where they could fly home . 
Westerdam passengers booked to leave today through Vietnam were rejected at the airport and returned back to the hotel . 
Kerby said her mother had a flight booked through Malaysia but when she arrived at the airport was told all travel had been halted . 
The uncertainty is mounting and there is concern the window for getting on a flight could be closing . 
Kerby , who has been posting regular updates about life onboard the ship on her Twitter feed , is optimistic . 
" My hope is that the news today of the negative test results might open some doors for us rather than close them , " she said . 
" I am being cautiously optimistic that we are all healthy and I am pleased to have a health declaration saying I ’ve tested negative for the virus . 
So I am trying to operate on facts here and hope for the best . " 
Cambodian health officials confirmed on Wednesday that 781 passengers from the Westerdam had tested negative for the novel coronavirus . 
Kerby said that she is following CDC advice and is self monitoring . 
She said passengers were allowed to leave the hotel freely and some people have been moving around and seeing the city . 
A wild journey Of her reception in Cambodia , after more than 10 days stuck at sea , Kerby said it was " phenomenal . " 
" Every Cambodian I ’ve met has been warm and welcoming ... such gracious hosts and hospitality , " she said . 
She also said the Westerdam crew " are single handedly responsible for keeping our spirits up . " 
" They were going through this with us , they were facing the same fear . 
And I never once saw a crew member not smile , not greet me warmly , not share a joke , " she said . 
However , Kerby said she has faced stigma on social media and has been " exposed to a lot of hurtful comments " because " there is a perception and fear that I am contagious , " she told CNN . 
" None of us feel like our lives will ever be the same again . 
And it 's actually a positive thing . 
It ’s given us a new sense of community ... it 's opened my eyes to other parts of the world that I never would have seen , " she said . 
