The number of coronavirus cases recorded globally now stands at 6,852,810 , according to the Johns Hopkins University dashboard . 
The US is hardest hit , with 1,917,080 cases , followed by Brazil ( 645,771 cases ) and Russia ( 458,102 cases ) .Victoria Bekiempis reports from New York : New deaths have been curving downward in the US , but Covid 19 continues to spread across the country , with thousands of confirmed diagnoses daily . 
The increase comes as officials – grappling with a 13.3 % unemployment rate – take more steps to reopen local economies . 
Meanwhile , social distancing guidelines have been increasingly challenged by nationwide protests over the killing of George Floyd , prompting concerns that cases could soon surge . 
The New York governor , Andrew Cuomo , recently expanded reopening efforts following dramatic declines in deaths and diagnoses in his state , which has been the most ravaged in the country . 
Cuomo said that New York City , which has been the center of the pandemic in the US , is on track to enter " phase one " of re opening on 8 June . 
It permits construction and manufacturing , as well as retail conducted on the curbside or trhough in store drop off and pick up . 
In some regions of New York state , houses of worship will be permitted to reopen at 25 % occupancy with " all social distancing protocols " on 7 June . 
Across the US , some tourist hubs are reopening . 
Universal Orlando reopened theme parks on 5 June after being closed for nearly three months , the Orlando Sentinel reported . 
Most guests sported masks and followed safety procedures such as temperature checks at the lightly attended parks . 
Las Vegas ’s famed casinos also re opened this week Public health officials have voiced concern that demonstrators and police at anti police brutality protests could spur Covid 19 ’s spread . 
Social distancing is virtually impossible at heavily attended protests and shouting could spread droplets containing COVID 19 . 
The sheer number of attendees renders contact tracing virtually impossible . 
Heavily criticized police techniques , such as using teargas and pepper spray on protesters , intensify this risk The substances cause coughing and oil based pepper spray prompts mucus , saliva , and tears to leave the nose , mouth , and eyes . 
