The White House made a concerted effort to discredit Dr . Anthony Fauci this weekend , after he gave a widely publicized interview with the Financial Times . 
The interview commanded headlines because Fauci conceded he had barely spoken to the President in months . 
Though last week 's interview with the FT was approved by the White House press shop , according to an aide familiar , administration officials distributed a list this weekend to multiple outlets that included statements made by Fauci during the early stages of the coronavirus pandemic . 
The White House cited this as evidence Fauci had been wrong -- without noting statements from the surgeon general urging people not to buy masks , or acknowledging the president ’s own misstatements about the virus . 
Trump annoyed by Fauci 's comments : A person familiar with the situation said it was because Trump had grown annoyed by Fauci 's public statements . 
Though Trump was already displeased by Fauci ’s television appearances early on , the White House has sought to downplay tension between the two for several months . 
The press shop stopped approving Fauci 's television appearances , believing it would help alleviate the situation , though they continued to allow him to give interviews with print outlets . 
Rare in person meetings with the Trump and Fauci are not awkward and do not involve raised voices , but Trump has complained about Fauci privately , according to a person familiar with the situation . 
Sources say part of that irritation is over the " good press " Fauci has received . 
Trump 's irritation with Fauci has also , at times , been encouraged by Peter Navarro , Trump 's trade adviser , who has repeatedly blamed Fauci for doubting the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine . 
Navarro once told Fauci he would be personally responsible if it was later shown that hydroxychloroquine worked to treat coronavirus , despite multiple studies questioning its use . 
In an interview on Meet the Press Sunday , Admiral Brett Giroir said there is " open discourse " within the task force . 
" I respect Dr . Fauci a lot , but Dr . Fauci is not 100 % right and he also does not necessarily , and he admits that , have the whole national interest in mind . 
He looks at it from a very narrow public health point of view , " Giroir said . 
Fauci is scheduled to be in the West Wing Monday for meetings . 
Watch Dr . Sanjay Gupta discuss : 
