The newly unveiled Trump administration budget proposal includes steep cuts for global health programs and the World Health Organization , even as the world grapples with the spread of the novel coronavirus . 
However , it does increase its proposed funding for Global Health Security . 
The FY21 Budget Proposal , released today , outlines a nearly $ 65M proposed cut to the World Health Organization – a more than 50 % decrease from FY20 funding . 
It also proposes a 34 % overall cut to Global Health Programs . 
It includes a proposed $ 115 million for Global Health Security aimed at enabling " the U.S . government , in partnership with other nations , international organizations , and public and private stakeholders , to prevent avoidable epidemics , detect threats early , and respond rapidly and effectively to disease outbreaks and other critical infectious disease threats ( including anti microbial resistance ) in an effort to prevent them from becoming national or global emergencies . " 
This is an increase of $ 25 million from last year ’s request . 
Asked by CNN about the impact the WHO cut could have on the global coronavirus response , the Director of the Department of State ’s Bureau of Budget & Planning downplayed the potential negative consequences . 
Jim Richardson , the Director of US Foreign Assistance Resources at the State Department , said the US was the " largest donor overall to global health around the world . " 
" We do think that it ’s important to balance the multilateral against the bilateral assistance , " Richardson said . 
" Both are important , but it is important for us to make sure that we get the appropriate reform to the multilateral while delivering the best assistance that we possibly can on the ground , and that ’s often through bilateral . " 
Deputy Secretary of State Steve Biegun claimed that the budget bolsters " country capacity to prevent , detect and respond to outbreaks and to prevent epidemics from reaching our borders . " 
" It also allows us to provide the necessary flexibility to respond to emerging global health threats such as the novel coronavirus and Ebola , " he said at the State Department . 
Biegun praised the State Department and USAID efforts in responding to the novel coronavirus . 
