President Trump 's surprise Tuesday night video cataloging his complaints about the massive — and painstakingly negotiated — $ 900 billion coronavirus relief bill immediately raised the specter of a government shutdown and economic turmoil at a time when aid is desperately sought for millions of Americans . 
The President did not explicitly threaten to veto the bill , and his White House said earlier in the night that he would sign it , but in a video released on Twitter , he added a layer of confusion to a delicate process that includes not only Covid 19 relief but a $ 1.4 trillion omnibus spending package that funds the federal government . 
Here are some key things to know : First , some facts : The White House explicitly told Senate Republicans weeks ago that it supported pursuing the omnibus ( all 12 appropriations bills tied into a single big package ) and those negotiations took place for weeks . 
The White House was fully aware of what was in the bill and what was agreed upon , though White House officials acknowledged late Tuesday that Trump himself had not received a detailed briefing on the package before its passage . 
Most of the items the President listed off as problematic in his Tuesday night video were not from the Covid relief piece of the package . 
They were from the omnibus . 
Most , if not all , of those items were similar to items in past spending packages the President has signed . 
Most notably , two people involved with the matter say , the President is fired up about the foreign aid in the package . 
Again , that has been part of each spending package he 's previously signed — but Trump was riled up in part by commentators on conservative media who complained about the aid , according to people familiar . 
There is no appetite for changes on Capitol Hill : As for his request to " amend " the bill , well , both chambers have passed the legislation , and at this point , aides on both sides say , there 's no plan to make any move to acquiesce to the President 's request on the cleared package . 
Early talk is that both sides may just ignore it and see if he cools off . 
The government is operating under a seven day continuing resolution , so there 's some time here . 
The real deadline is December 28 . 
" Maybe he 'll become obsessed with something else and forget about this whole episode , " one senior Democratic aide told CNN . 
" Or maybe he 'll just blow the thing up . 
Perfect coda to his time in office . " 
But at the moment , aides on both sides of the aisle are mostly just dumbstruck . 
" It 's a weird thing where I 'm not at all surprised because of course he 'd do this , but also kind of stunned because he 's been so preoccupied with everything else that this seemed in a good place , " one senior Republican aide told CNN . 
Read the full story here . 
