Millions of struggling renters will likely be protected from eviction — at least for another month . 
The stimulus bill that was passed by Congress late Monday night would extend a national ban on evictions until Jan . 31 . 
The package would also provide $ 25 billion in emergency rental assistance . 
But the relief bill still needs to be signed by President Trump . 
But , should the package go through , neither of the measures will likely be enough to keep the most at risk renters in their homes past January . 
Struggling to stay afloat Kelly Green , who lives in a $ 1,429 a month apartment in Daytona Beach , Florida , has not been able to pay rent since September . 
Green makes her living selling rhinestone - and sequined biker apparel at motorcycle rallies and other festivals . 
After the shutdown in March , there were no festivals , no events and she had no income . 
Still , she cobbled together her savings , stimulus payment , rent relief and unemployment insurance payments and managed to get current on her rent through July . 
But she did not know how she 'd make ends meet after the $ 600 a week supplemental unemployment support ended . 
Green heard about a coronavirus related rent relief fund offered by Volusia County , where she lives . 
She applied for assistance and was awarded $ 4,500 for three months ' rent . 
But there was a snag : The Volusia County rent assistance program requires tenants to have been current on rent as of March 13 , 2020 . 
Green was behind on her rent in February and , as a result , her apartment complex would not accept the aid . 
Without that money , Green was unable to pay full rent for October , November or December . 
And since she overstayed her lease in November , she 's now on a month to month lease that is $ 500 more expensive a month . 
" Even if the moratorium is extended , money is piling up against me , " she said . 
" What would help me the most is if I receive a check for rental assistance for three months , that they take it . " 
Read the full story here . 
