More than two months after the coronavirus outbreak emerged in the Chinese city of Wuhan , President Xi Jinping has put on a major show of confidence by visiting the stricken epicenter . 
The spread of the epidemic has basically been contained in the country , Xi said during his tour , adding that after hard work from authorities the situation is now gradually improving . 
The president 's visit marks a significant moment in the global outbreak , with new cases of the virus slowing to a trickle in the country where the disease first emerged . 
At its worst , Hubei province was reporting thousands of new cases per day . 
But on Monday , China 's National Health Commission announced only 17 new cases in the province . 
Meanwhile , Europe is grappling with a growing outbreak . 
In an unprecedented and potentially legally fraught move , the whole of Italy is under lockdown . 
The country has the highest number of confirmed cases outside China , at 9,172 , and 463 deaths . 
The drastic measures include blanket travel restrictions , a ban on public events , the closure of schools and public spaces such as movie theaters , and the suspension of religious services including funerals or weddings . 
Nearby Spain has also seen a rapid rise in confirmed cases to 1,204 and 28 deaths . 
As of Wednesday , schools and universities in the heavily hit Basque Country will be suspended . 
Top flight football matches in the country will also be played to empty stadiums for the next two weeks , in an attempt to stem the spread of the virus . 
The European Parliament is also cancelling " non core " activities -- including things like committee hearings , seminars , cultural events , and election observation missions . 
Elsewhere , Iran continues to see its number of cases rise -- now more than 8,000 with almost 300 deaths . 
It 's the second highest number of cases outside of China , after Italy , and the Middle East country has suspended Friday prayers for two weeks running to cope with the spread . 
