If the current trend in rising coronavirus cases continues , then raising the social distancing measure to the highest level would be unavoidable , South Korean Prime Minister , Chung Sye kyun warned on Saturday . 
He posted the warning on his verified Facebook account as he held an emergency meeting to discuss surging coronavirus cases on Saturday . 
A raise in the alert level would mean a ban on gathering of more than 10 people , work from home for all non essential employees and a shift to online for all schools and church services . 
South Korea was widely praised as a Covid 19 success story , and initially managed to keep the pandemic largely under control . 
But the nation reported 950 new cases of coronavirus on Saturday , marking the highest jump in single day cases since the beginning of the pandemic , according to the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency ( KDCA ) . 
Seoul Metropolitan Area accounts for the majority of the total with a record 669 new cases . 
Currently the national alert level in South Korea is under Level 2 which is the third highest level . 
It ’s higher for the Seoul Metropolitan Area – at under 2.5 – the second highest level . 
Alert levels in South Korea range from 1 , which denotes the least concerning situation , to 3 signifying the situation requires toughest measure . 
Each time the alert level is raised it goes up by 0.5 . " A very serious situation : " South Korean President , Moon Jae in also warned that the surge in Covid 19 cases presents a " very serious situation . " 
" In fact , we cannot but say that it 's an emergency situation , " he said on Saturday via a post on his verified Facebook and Twitter account . 
In a press briefing on Saturday , KDCA official , Im Suk yeong said 90 new coronavirus cases were found in a religious facility in the Western district of Seoul and 66 new cases were found in a nursing hospital in outskirts of Seoul . 
An additional 14 cases were discovered while investigating a cluster originating in a restaurant in central Seoul , bringing the total cases linked to the restaurant to 230 , she added . 
Testing centers boost : In a bid to get a jump on the rising cases , 150 testing stations will be installed around Greater Seoul 's high risk areas . 
These will come online on December 14 and operate for three weeks , Im added . 
The testing will be conducted anonymously to encourage public participation . 
Im also said 810 government workers , including members of the military , police have been deployed to aid epidemiological investigation . 480 more workers will join the effort in the future . 
Despite the stricter social distancing measures that came into effect on December 5 in the capital city of Seoul , movement of people has not reduced sufficiently , Im added . 
Im warned the current trend will likely continue for a week before showing the result of the increased social distancing measures . 
