The Senate wo not be able to complete action on the $ 1 trillion coronavirus stimulus package before next week and will work through the weekend to try to hammer out a deal with Democrats , two Senate Republican leaders said Wednesday . 
Asked if the Senate could pass a bill as early as Thursday – an ambitious time frame some GOP senators said they hoped to meet – Sen . 
John Cornyn of Texas , was dubious it could be done that quickly . 
Sen . 
John Thune , the Republican Whip , agreed . 
" We ’re trying to accelerate everything , pull it together quickly . 
But by the time you get into negotiations with the Democrats , it pushes it through the weekend , " Thune said . 
" We ’ll see what happens . 
As you know around here , when there ’s a sense of urgency things can happen more quickly . " 
Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell declined to say if he agreed it would last into next week . 
Cornyn pointed to troubles House Democrats had last week when they pressed to quickly pass a coronavirus relief bill but then had to take more time to make technical corrections to the bill before sending it to the Senate , where it is set to pass Wednesday . 
" Haste does make waste . 
I think what we saw come out of the House at 1 am Saturday , it was not ready for prime time . 
It took them a couple of days to get it in shape and pass it . 
So we do not want to make unintentional errors or mistake . 
But we do not have time to dilly dally either , " Cornyn said . 
Cornyn , who said the Congress needs to be on a " war footing " to respond to the crisis , said he ’s concerned if the virus is not quelled , the Trump administration may come back with another trillion dollars request . 
" What I worry about more than anything is that it ’s not going to be the end . 
Because if this think keeps going , will the Secretary coming back and say we need another trillion ? 
I ’m a fiscal conservative and I think the federal government spends more than it brings in , and that ’s a problem , but I do not think we ’re going to solve that problem now . 
We just need to respond to this emergency , " Cornyn said . 
