The numbers : At least 341,000 people have contracted the novel coronavirus and over 14,700 have died , according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University , which is tracking cases recorded by the World Health Organization and additional sources . 
Hong Kong introduces new controls : The city will ban most non residents from entering as it struggles to contain a new wave of infections . 
Other parts of Asia have also introduced new measures this week amid fears of imported cases . 
Olympic dreams hang by a thread : For the first time Monday , Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe acknowledged that Tokyo 2020 may have to be postponed . 
Canada has already said it wo not send a team even if the Games go ahead this year as planned . 
US relief bill delayed : A key Senate vote related to a massive economic stimulus plan in response to the pandemic has been pushed back as lawmakers continue to wrangle over its contents . 
Stock markets take a hit : European markets opened lower on Monday as the US Senate stalled on the stimulus plan for the US economy . 
The main markets all opened around 3 % to 4 % down , following losses in Asia and a big drop in US futures . 
Indian cities go into lockdown : The capital New Delhi is among 75 districts in the country that will go into lockdown until March 31 in response to the coronavirus pandemic . 
Several districts are now enforcing a pre existing law that makes it a punishable offence for four or more people to gather . 
Australia urges halt to domestic travel : More than a thousand cases have been reported in the country as Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced the closure of non essential businesses and urged people to avoid domestic travel . 
It 's only the latest blow to Australians after an intense summer of wildfires in what Morrison described as " the toughest year of our lives . " 
New Zealand issues highest level alert : All non essential businesses across the country will close , Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said . 
The Pacific nation had already limited international arrivals amid fears of imported cases . 
Correction : This post has been updated to reflect that most travelers to Hong Kong will be banned from entering the territory from midnight on Wednesday . 
