World Health Organization officials on Monday addressed remarks made by White House coronavirus response coordinator Dr . Deborah Birx Sunday that the Covid 19 epidemic was entering a new phase in the United States . 
Birx said that the country could still turn things around , and that the state based planning and implementation seemed to be the right path . 
This acceleration was shown in the Southern states , and there are signs in other more central states that the acceleration may be occurring , Ryan said . 
" I think they were taking a very prudent step in warning all states to really reexamine exactly where they were in the pandemic , to implement all of those comprehensive measures , " he said . 
" And I think those lead scientists are laying out exactly what they feel needs to happen in order to suppress this and getting this virus back to the box . " 
From what he has seen from reports , Ryan said it is also prudent to be " stepping back some of the measure of reopening , and taking a step back and trying to reset in certain areas back to an earlier stage of virus control . " 
Ryan said that the intensity of transmission in many countries means that it is going to take a huge effort in terms of personal and community behavior to suppress it . 
" It is not our job to tell the US what it should be doing at sub national level . 
The state based planning and implementation guided by the national scientists seems to be the right path , " he said . 
" The difficulty for us all is sometimes we know the right path ; the difficulty is choosing to walk it . " 
Maria Van Kerkhove , WHO ’s technical lead for coronavirus response , said , " The United States can turn this around . 
… We know that , we have seen this in many , many countries that have applied this comprehensive approach . " 
Van Kerkhove appealed to everyone in the US to follow guidance . 
" Stay at home if you ’re asked to stay at home . 
Wear a mask if you ’re asked to wear a mask , " she said . 
" Be part of this fight with us . 
And we know that you can turn it around . " 
