Key deadlines on extending a federal eviction moratorium and federal unemployment benefits have come and gone . 
Yet lawmakers and the White House , sources say , are as far apart as they 've ever been in talks on the next emergency aid package . 
As one person involved told CNN on Sunday night : " No clue how we get this done at this point . 
Just so much outstanding . " 
Here 's what you need to know about the stimulus negotiations : Bottom line : Negotiators on both sides emerged from a three hour plus meeting on Saturday with by far the most positive words about where things stood . 
What that really underscored was just how much of a mess these talks have been . 
The meeting was productive because negotiators left with a better understanding of the full scope of disagreements ( and areas of potential agreement ) , according to two sources . 
Not because they 'd made headway toward an actual deal . 
What to watch : Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and White House chief of staff Mark Meadows will be back on Capitol Hill to meet with Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer . 
The framing : To understand why the two sides remain so far apart , it 's worth comparing how each is framing the scale of the crisis . 
Mnuchin , during the talks over the initial $ 2.2 trillion CARES Act , dismissed concerns about deficits due to historically low borrowing costs and the urgency of the moment . 
That has shifted — on Sunday he made a point of noting concerns about adding to much to the national debt in the next round . 
This , on the other hand , was how Pelosi framed things in a letter to her House Democratic colleagues on Saturday night : " All parties must understand the gravity of the situation in order to reach an agreement that protects Americans ' lives , livelihoods and the life of our democracy . " 
There are a large number of policy differences here , but the biggest issue throughout the first week plus of real negotiations has been the lens through which the two sides view the scale of the current crisis . 
And until that starts to merge , at least somewhat , there is no deal to be had . 
The timing : The policy deadlines , at least up to this point , did not spark a deal . 
The Senate is scheduled to leave for August recess at the end of this week , but there 's zero sense something will come together before then . 
Neither side wants to leave town for the month without reaching an agreement , but at this point , that agreement — and then the process of actually getting it through both chambers — is a long way off . 
" I 'm not optimistic that there will be a solution in the very near term , " Meadows said on CBS 's " Face the Nation . " 
