Despite public denials today , White House officials have privately weighed appointing a czar to oversee the administration ’s response to the growing coronavirus outbreak . 
President Trump has privately expressed frustration with his Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar , who has taken the lead on coordinating the response so far , and is blaming him for not keeping him updated enough , sources say . 
Azar testified Wednesday that he has been in constant contact with the President and the acting chief of staff Mick Mulvaney . 
But Trump been particularly irked that he ’s finding out about decisions after people complain to him about them , like the one to bring the Americans home from the cruise and the preliminary idea to house some patients at a FEMA facility in Alabama , which both the governor and representatives objected to directly to Trump . 
The President has blamed Azar for not keeping him updated and allowing him to weigh in on crucial decisions , and has weighed selecting another point person as alarm about the outbreak is on the rise , though he has not followed through on it yet . 
Lawmakers also called on Trump to appoint someone to oversee the response , which came up during a clash over the administration ’s request for more coronavirus funding . 
Some White House officials accused HHS of requesting disproportionate amounts of money to cover up what one official described as Azar ’s " mismanagement . " 
Deputy press secretary Judd Deere denied reports about adding a czar Wednesday . 
" This is not true ! 
The President took decisive action by creating the Coronavirus Virus Task Force a month ago and is pleased with the leadership of @ Sec Azar to protect the public health . " 
After the market tumbled early this week , Trump also questioned whether Azar is up to the challenge of handling the crisis . 
While testifying Wednesday , Azar insisted a czar was not necessary despite how the Obama administration appointed Ron Klain to oversee the Ebola virus response . 
" It ’s just the longstanding doctrine that this should be led by HHS with a public health emergency , " he told lawmakers . 
" The oddity was actually what President Obama did with the Ebola response . " 
The President and other officials have also directed their anger at Dr . Nancy Messonnier , the CDC official who has been a public face of the coronavirus response , for what officials claim is overly fatalistic messaging . 
