A key Senate vote related to a massive economic stimulus plan in response to the coronavirus pandemic is being pushed back about three hours as Democrats and Republicans jockey for advantage in the talks over the bill . 
This is because Democrats are blocking the GOP ’s ability to come into session before noon , which is something that requires the Democrats ’ consent and is usually given without question . 
In this case , Democrats do not want to be forced to take the procedural vote Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell wanted to take at 9:45 a.m . E.T . They want the talks on the stimulus bill to continue without that deadline , which they have called artificial . 
Mc Connell blasted Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer ’s move as reckless . 
He warned the stock markets will now be open for three hours before they can get some certainty that a stimulus bill will pass the Senate . 
Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin , who had several meetings with Schumer throughout Sunday as the various sides try to hammer out an agreement , is expected back on Capitol Hill Monday morning . 
Then the Senate will come in at noon . 
There could be leader remarks from Mc Connell and Schumer . 
Around 1 p.m . E.T . , the Senate will then cast votes on three procedural motions , the third of which is the one in question . 
That said , if they actually cut a bipartisan deal before these votes are scheduled , they will likely toss these procedural votes aside and move directly to the bill . 
What the bill aims to deliver : The emergency economic aid proposal could be worth over $ 2 trillion , according to Larry Kudlow , a top economic adviser to President Donald Trump . 
It would include direct payments to Americans under a certain income threshold , $ 200 billion in loans to airlines and distressed industry sectors and $ 300 billion in forgivable bridge loans for small businesses . 
The proposal , a draft of which was obtained by CNN , underscores the scale of the economic crisis facing individuals and businesses across the country amid the accelerating pandemic and bolsters health care resources , student loans and aid , business tax provisions and temporary authority . 
Read more about the bill here : 
