Belgium ’s Prince Joachim has publicly apologized after testing positive for the coronavirus in southern Spain . 
The 28 year old royal had attended a social event with the family of a Spanish female friend there , his lawyer ’s office confirmed to CNN on Monday . 
Joachim , a nephew of Belgium 's King Philippe , traveled from Belgium to Spain on May 24 . 
On May 26 , he attended a social gathering in Cordoba with " 12 or 27 guests , " the Belgian Palace 's press office said . 
Joachim tested positive for Covid 19 on May 28 . 
In a statement released by the Cordoba law office of Mariano Aguayo , the prince said : Under Spain ’s state of emergency , all travelers arriving in Spain from May 15 , with few exceptions , are required to go into quarantine for two weeks . 
Under the confinement rules in place in Cordoba , gatherings of more than 15 people who do not live together are not permitted . 
Authorities are now investigating if the event had more than 15 people in attendance , the spokeswoman for Rafaela Valenzuela , the Spanish government ’s chief representative in Cordoba , told CNN Monday . 
The spokeswoman added that regional health authorities had informed the Spanish government that there may have been up to 27 people at the event . 
A spokeswoman for the prince ’s law office told CNN there were two social events on consecutive days last week at which the prince was meeting with the family of a female friend , but neither event was attended by more than 15 people . 
The prince is in isolation now , with mild symptoms from the coronavirus , said the law office spokeswoman . 
Prince Joachim is the third child of Princess Astrid , the younger sister of Belgium 's serving King , according to the palace website . 
The numbers : Spain has been one of the hardest hit countries in Europe by Covid 19 , with more than 239,000 confirmed cases and more than 27,000 deaths . 
As the infection rate has declined , the government has slowly eased confinement restrictions , while focusing on early detection through increased testing and contract tracing , to quickly tamp down on any new outbreaks . 
