An Amman summit between Jordan , Iraq and Egypt will go ahead on Tuesday with extra precautions , officials said , after Iraq ’s telecommunications minister tested positive for Covid 19 . 
Minister Arkan al Shaybani and fellow Iraqi officials were tested upon landing in Amman on Friday and the entire delegation was placed in confinement after the minister tested positive , according to a statement by Jordan ’s information minister Amjad al Adayla . 
" This required implementing medical procedures put in place to protect the health of our guest while he is in the kingdom , " Adayla said in comments reported by Jordan ’s official Petra news agency . 
Shaybani was travelling to Amman for a tripartite summit on Tuesday between the leaders of Iraq , Jordan and Egypt to discuss trade , telecommunications and oil . 
The one day meeting will bring King Abdullah II of Jordan and Egyptian president Abdel Fattah al Sisi together with Iraqi prime minister Mustafa al Kadhemi for the first time . 
The gathering comes just days after Kadhemi ’s return from Washington , which has long urged its allies in the region to band together against Iranian influence . 
Jordan , Egypt and Iraq have held similar meetings in the past two years , mostly focused on infrastructure and coordinating the fight against jihadists . 
" The summit will still take place on Tuesday but the size of the delegations and the meeting times will be limited as a precautionary measure , " Kadhemi ’s spokesman , Ahmad Mullal Talal , told AFP . 
Iraq ’s coronavirus caseload neared 208,000 , with deaths at nearly 6,500 - making it one of the hardest hit countries in the Middle East . 
On Monday , the deputy speaker of Iraq ’s parliament Hassan al Kaabi also announced he had tested positive . 
Between lawmakers and their staff , there are more than 60 cases in parliament . 
The virus claimed the life of one Iraqi parliamentarian last month and a presidential adviser last week . 
The World Health Organization has warned that Iraq ’s cases are " exponentially rising to an alarming and worrying level , suggesting a major health crisis soon " . 
