A Florida judge temporarily blocked governor Ron De Santis and top education officials from forcing public schools to reopen brick and mortar classrooms amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic , ruling that the states order arbitrarily disregards safety . 
In his ruling , Leon County judge Charles Dodson said the mandate to reopen schools usurped local control from school districts in deciding for themselves whether it was safe for students , teachers and staffers to return . 
The Florida Education Association had sued the state after education commissioner Richard Corcoran issued an order earlier this summer mandating that schools reopen classrooms by 31 August or risk losing funding . 
The districts have no meaningful alternative , the judge wrote in his opinion . 
If an individual school district chooses safety , that is , delaying the start of schools until it individually determines it is safe to do so for its county , it risks losing state funding , even though every student is being taught , he ruled . 
As the outbreak began spreading across the state last spring , officials shuttered schools and teachers began providing instruction virtually to the states 2.9 million public school students . 
The Florida Education Association , which includes unions representing teachers and other school employees , expressed concerns about the ability of schools to keep children and teachers healthy . 
The ruling came as Florida ’s coronavirus spread appeared to be waning , although it still outpaces the ability of contact tracers to contain outbreaks . 
With several key metrics on the decline , the governor says Dolphins and Hurricanes fans can attend football games again , under careful conditions . 
State provided statistics showed 4,655 people being treated for Covid 19 in Florida hospitals on Monday , less than half of the peaks above 9,500 a month ago . 
A total of 72 new deaths were reported , bringing the seven day average down to 123 , the lowest rate in a month . 
Average daily increases in cases over the past week have declined to a level not seen since late June . 
