The US has had the worst response to Covid 19 of any major country , Dr . Ashish Jha , director of the Harvard Global Institute of Health , said Monday . 
" I think it ’s pretty fair to say we may have the worst response of any major country , " Jha said during a Center for American Progress webinar . 
While he said that it could be argued that Brazil ’s response has been as bad or worse , competing with Brazil for that title is " not where you want to be . " 
Jha said that the US has gone from believing that coronavirus was a hoax , to believing it was the flu , to now thinking the pandemic is nearly over because a vaccine is two months away . 
" One message , " he said . 
" The vaccine is not two months away and we are nowhere near done with this pandemic . " 
In January , the federal government and others denied the existence and importance of the virus , Jha said . 
In February , the country " largely flew blind , " with no testing capacity and no idea about the spread across the country . 
March brought awareness of how bad the situation was , but a response that was far too slow , costing lives . 
In April and May , when the country was supposedly shut down , he said , large parts of the country still allowed much activity and the White House was sending mixed messages about what needed to be done . 
June brought reopening " way too soon , in way too many places , and way too aggressively , " he said . 
Looking at the country today , while what Jha called the " super hot zones , " like Texas , Florida and Arizona , are starting to cool down . 
But too many cases are still being generated , he said . 
Jha sees more challenges and " muddling along " in the coming weeks and months , with the pandemic being fought on a state by state basis . 
" What I ’m worried about is that there will continue to be no real national strategy , " he said . 
" When things are bad in Florida , you ca not really protect New York or New Jersey or Washington state . 
We are all in this together . " 
