Younger adults are the " hardest hit " groups in the community and continue to drive up the number of new coronavirus cases in Los Angeles County , health officials said at a news conference on Wednesday . 
People between the ages of 18 and 49 make up nearly 60 % of new coronavirus cases , according to health officials . 
Since the beginning of June , the case rate for people in the age group of 30 to 49 nearly tripled and the case rate for people between the ages of 18 to 29 nearly quadrupled , Los Angeles County Department of Public Health Director Dr . Barbara Ferrer said . 
Residents should comply with the new " legally binding " health order prohibiting gatherings , including parties , Ferrer said . 
" Violation of or failure to comply with the Health Officer Order is a crime punishable by fine , imprisonment , or both and the Department of Public Health works with residents , businesses , city officials and law enforcement to be sure residents are aware of and adhere to the life saving directives in the order , " the public health department said in a statement . 
In terms of enforcement , Ferrer said the department is " working hard " and responding to thousands of complaints related to non compliance each week . 
" We cannot just rely on enforcement , " she said . 
" The better strategy is for people to help us by taking responsibility . " 
While Ferrer said she remains " cautiously optimistic " about the current situation , she said there have been significant issues with state reported data on cases leading to an undercount of cases . 
The data : California reported 5,295 new Covid 19 cases and 202 deaths on Wednesday . 
The state 's health department warned that cases are being underreported due to issues with the state ’s electronic laboratory reporting system . 
Ferrer said the missing data hinders " our efforts to monitor and reduce the spread of Covid 19 . " 
Los Angeles County reported 2,347 new cases and 68 new deaths on Wednesday . 
The county has a total of 197,912 positive cases and 4,825 deaths . 
California has a total of 524,722 coronavirus cases and 9,703 deaths . 
Note : These figures were released by California Department of Public Health/Los Angeles County Department of Public Health , and may not line up exactly in real time with CNN ’s database drawn from Johns Hopkins University and the Covid Tracking Project . 
