European countries are racing to contain coronavirus outbreaks as the continent struggles with a second wave of Covid 19 . 
Here 's what you need to know Germany Germany 's largest cities have become coronavirus hotspots over the last few days . 
Berlin has reported a spike in cases , while the cities of Cologne , Dusseldorf , Essen and Stuttgart have also recorded a rise in infection rates . 
Stuttgart has requested military assistance to manage the crisis , an unusual move for a major German city . 
The country reported 2,467 new coronavirus cases on Monday , which is less than the record daily cases seen over the weekend , according to data from the Robert Koch Institute ( RKI ) , Germany 's public health institute . 
Germany now has 325,331 coronavirus case and 9,621 deaths according to the RKI . 
The Netherlands Ahmed Aboutaleb , the mayor of the Netherlands ' second largest city -- Rotterdam -- has tested positive for coronavirus . 
The city said Aboutaleb was " home with mild symptoms , and based on the advice of the municipal health service must remain in isolation for seven days , " in a statement published Monday . 
A spokesperson for the mayor told CNN that he began showing symptoms on Friday , and tested positive for the virus on Sunday evening . 
She added that the mayor is carrying out his duties from home . 
England The English city of Liverpool , in the country 's northwest , is to be placed under tier three lockdown restrictions , the strictest of the country 's new Covid 19 rules . 
The region 's rising infection rate is worrying the UK government . 
The restrictions , which are stricter than those imposed on southern areas , have caused tensions between politicians in northern regions and the British government , based in London . 
Liverpool 's mayor reacted with fury on Monday and accused Boris Johnson 's government of imposing " lockdown by diktat . " 
Johnson is due to reveal more details about the new system of restrictions later on Monday . 
