A Russian court has ordered a woman who escaped from quarantine after testing negative for the disease to return to hospital for at least two more days . 
Alla llyina was admitted to hospital in St Petersburg on 6 February with a sore throat and was tested for the new coronavirus as she had returned from China five days earlier . 
She broke out of the hospital the next day by disabling an electronic lock in her room , after finding out she would have to spend 14 days in isolation instead of the 24 hours that doctors promised her . 
In an Instagram post , Ilyina wrote : " Wild . 
All three tests showed I was completely healthy , so why the hell the quarantine ? " 
Several days later , Russia ’s public health watchdog , Rospotrebnadzor , filed a lawsuit against her , asking the court to order compulsory confinement in hospital . 
Ilyina ’s defence lawyer argued during the court hearing on Monday that she did not pose any danger to people around her and noted that she was allowed into a courtroom packed with dozens of people , none of whom wore masks . 
Health officials maintained that isolating Ilyina was a necessary measure to stop the virus from spreading , claiming it can be latent in a person for up to 24 days . 
The St Petersburg branch of Rospotrebnadzor did not respond to a request for comment on the effectiveness of the court ruling , given that Ilyina has already roamed free for almost 10 days after escaping . 
Last week , at least three other people in quarantine for possible coronavirus infection fled the same St Petersburg hospital . 
Two of them have since returned while the third a woman , named Anna Rybakova , remains at large , according to media reports . 
Rospotrebnadzor has filed a lawsuit to bring Rybakova back to the hospital as well , with a hearing scheduled for Wednesday . 
The chief of Rospotrebnadzor , Anna Popova , announced on Monday that health officials were looking into introducing harsher measures for patients who violated quarantine rules and stricter quarantine protocols . 
Russia has recorded only two cases of the Covid 19 disease , two Chinese citizens who have been treated and released . 
However , Russian authorities have confined in hospital hundreds of people who returned from China as a precaution . 
Russia has also halted most air traffic to China , suspended all trains to China and North Korea , and closed its land border with China and Mongolia . 
Russia ’s prime minister , Mikhail Mishustin , has also said Russia may start deporting foreigners infected with the virus . 
A Russian woman onboard the quarantined Diamond Princess cruise ship in Japan is the first Russian citizen to be diagnosed with the disease . 
