A Pakistani international student on a university campus in Wuhan , the city at the centre of the coronavirus outbreak in China , has told of how he and other international students have been ordered not to leave their dormitories . 
More than 100 foreign students at Wuhan ’s Zhongnan University of Economics and Law had been allowed to visit grocery stores for one hour a week to purchase basic necessities . 
They have now apparently been advised to remain in isolation to reduce the risk of possible disease spread , though it is unclear if anyone has contracted the deadly virus . 
" There are lots of people in this situation , " he said . 
" I am not alone . 
For the past few days , we have been told to stay in our room and not go anywhere . 
Our exterior doors are locked and we cannot go outside . " 
He and his fellow students spend most of their time in their rooms , only leaving to cook food in bulk to then refrigerate . 
The student said : We try to avoid talking to each other because we are scared . 
Face to face contact is limited and most of the time I stayed in my room . 
We speak over the internet . 
Since the university was closed in the beginning of January , students from Bangladesh , Nepal , Russia and elsewhere have been returned to their home countries , but those from some African and Latin American states are also among those who pass the days reading books , phoning home and watching TV . 
Movement has been increasingly restricted and prices of groceries have allegedly doubled . 
The student said the university administration was trying its best to manage the situation , but is required to keep the students indoors . 
They have basically told us if one of us gets infected , it will spread quickly to everyone else as we live in close proximity . 
At the moment we do not know if anyone is infected or not , we are so afraid . 
It still feels like a worst nightmare . 
Pakistani authorities have reportedly said that more than 500 students from the country are in Wuhan , but no plans for their evacuation have yet been announced . 
The Pakistani student said : All students are scared and waiting for this disaster to end or our countries to rescue us . 
We are trying to stay strong and encourage each other . 
