Doctors in Shanghai are using infusions of blood plasma from people who have recovered from the coronavirus to treat those still battling the infection , with some encouraging results . 
A top emergency expert at the World Health Organization said that using convalescent plasma was a " very valid " approach to test , but it was important to get the timing right to maximise the boost to a patient ’s immunity . 
China ’s financial hub of Shanghai has had 332 infected cases , one of whom died in recent weeks . 
Lu Hongzhou , professor and co director of the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Centre , said that 184 people were still in hospital , including 166 mild cases , while 18 were in serious and critical conditions , Reuters reports . 
He said the hospital had set up a special clinic to administer plasma therapy and was selecting patients who were willing to donate . 
The blood would be screened to check if he or she had other diseases like hepatitis B or C , he added . 
" We are positive that this method can be very effective in our patients , " he said . 
There are no fully licensed treatments or vaccines against the new coronavirus , and the process of developing and testing drugs can take many months and even years . 
Convalescent plasma has been proven " effective and life saving " against other infectious diseases , including rabies and diphtheria , Dr Mike Ryan , head of the WHO health emergencies programme , told reporters in Geneva . 
It is a very important area to pursue . 
Because what hyperimmune globulin does is it concentrates the antibodies in a recovered patient . 
You are essentially giving the new victim ’s immune system a boost of antibodies to hopefully get them through the very difficult phase . 
So it must be given at the right time , because it mops up the virus in the system , and it just gives the new patient ’s immune system a vital push at the time it needs it . 
But it has to be carefully timed and it ’s not always successful . 
Ryan added : " So it is a very important area of discovery , and I believe they are starting trials on that in China . 
But it is a very valid way to explore therapeutics , especially when we do not have vaccines and we do not have specific antivirals . " 
As well as using plasma therapies , the Chinese doctors are also trying antiviral drugs licensed for use against other infections to see if they might help . 
Scientists are testing two antiviral drugs and preliminary results are due in weeks , while the head of a Wuhan hospital had said plasma infusions from recovered patients had shown some encouraging preliminary results . 
