China has ordered three reporters from American newspaper the Wall Street Journal to leave the country , over what Beijing deemed a racist headline . 
The expulsion came as Beijing slammed Washington ’s decision to tighten rules on Chinese state media organisations in the United States , calling the move " unreasonable and unacceptable " , AFP reports . 
A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said the Journal op ed - titled " China is the Real Sick Man of Asia " - had a " racially discriminatory " and " sensational " headline , and slammed the newspaper for not issuing an official apology . 
Geng told a press briefing : As such , China has decided that from today , the press cards of three Wall Street Journal reporters in Beijing will be revoked . 
The Journal reported that deputy bureau chief Josh Chin and reporter Chao Deng , both US nationals , as well as reporter Philip Wen , an Australian , had been ordered to leave the country in five days . 
The three journalists are in the Wall Street Journal ’s news section , which is not linked to the editorial and opinion section . 
The op ed , written by Bard College professor Walter Russell Mead , criticised the Chinese government ’s initial response to the new coronavirus outbreak . 
It called the Wuhan city government " secretive and self serving " , while dismissing national efforts as ineffective . 
The phrase " sick man of Asia " originally referred to China in the late 19th and early 20th century , when it was exploited by foreign powers during a period sometimes called the country ’s " century of humiliation " . 
The 3 February piece " slandered the efforts of the Chinese government and the Chinese people to fight the epidemic " , said Geng . 
The new coronavirus epidemic has killed over 2,000 people in China and infected more than 74,000 , and has spread to at least two dozen countries . 
" The editors of the Wall Street Journal have nailed themselves to the pillar of shame , " wrote the nationalistic Global Times in an op ed on Tuesday before the reporters were expelled . 
The WSJ ’s remarks " sound like gloating , and they disgust Chinese people " , it said . 
The expulsions come a day after the United States angered China for classifying five state media outlets , including Xinhua news agency and the China Global Television Network , as foreign missions , with State Department officials saying they were part of Beijing ’s growing " propaganda " apparatus . 
Voicing China ’s " strong dissatisfaction " , Geng added cryptically : " We reserve the right to respond further to this matter . " 
