If large scale shutdown policies — such as ordering people to stay home and closing schools — were not implemented after the coronavirus pandemic made its way to the United States , there would be roughly 60 million more coronavirus infections across the nation , a new modeling study suggests . 
The study , published Monday in the scientific journal Nature , involved a modeling technique typically used for estimating economic growth to measure the effect of shutdown policies across six countries : China , South Korea , Italy , Iran , France and the United States . 
Those estimates suggest that , without certain policies in place from the beginning of the pandemic in January through early April , there would be roughly : 285 million more total infections in China 38 million more total infections in South Korea 49 million more total infections in Italy 54 million more total infections in Iran 45 million more total infections in France 60 million more total infections in the United States Overall , the study suggests that emergency Covid 19 policies prevented more than 500 million total coronavirus infections across all six countries . 
The study period ended on April 6 , but keeping shutdown orders in place after that time has likely led to even more coronavirus infections being avoided — even though maintaining such measures has been difficult , the study 's lead author , Solomon Hsiang , a professor and director of the Global Policy Laboratory at the University of California , Berkeley , said in a press release on Monday . 
" I do not think any human endeavor has ever saved so many lives in such a short period of time . 
There have been huge personal costs to staying home and canceling events , but the data show that each day made a profound difference , " Hsiang added . 
" By using science and cooperating , we changed the course of history . " 
The study , conducted by researchers at UC Berkeley , included data across the six countries on daily infection rates , changes in coronavirus case definitions and the timing of 1,717 policy deployments — including travel restrictions , social distancing measures and stay at home lockdowns — from the earliest available dates this year through April 6 . 
The researchers analyzed that data to estimate how the daily growth rate of infections could have changed over time within a specific location if there were different combinations of large scale policies enacted . 
The data showed that , excluding Iran , the growth rate of infections was around 38 % per day on average before policies slowed the spread . 
The researchers found that , across all six countries total , shutdown interventions prevented or delayed roughly 530 million total infections — which , based on testing procedures and how cases were defined , translates to about 62 million confirmed cases . 
The researchers did not estimate how many deaths might have been prevented . 
" Our analysis focuses on confirmed infections , but other outcomes , such as hospitalizations or deaths , are also of policy interest . 
Future work on these outcomes may require additional modeling approaches because they are relatively more context - and state dependent , " the researchers wrote in the study . 
Remember : The study had some limitations , including that available data on infections and measures across the countries were limited and the study can only suggest estimations about what could have happened . 
" Our empirical results indicate that large scale anti contagion policies are slowing the COVID 19 pandemic , " the researchers wrote in the study . 
" Because infection rates in the countries we study would have initially followed rapid exponential growth had no policies been applied , our results suggest that these policies have provided large health benefits . " 
