A wedding in northern Jordan led to 85 people being infected with Covid 19 , resulting in one death , a new study published by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found . 
According to researchers at Jordan University of Science and Technology , the wedding ceremony and party were held indoors on March 13 in the city of Irbid . 
Around 360 people attended the event , according to the researchers . 
Around that time , Jordan only had one confirmed case of Covid 19 . 
The study conducted tests on samples from 350 possible cases within four weeks of exposure at the wedding , including people who were at the wedding and people who had close contacts with attendees . 
Here 's what the study found : At least 85 people with a history of exposure related to the wedding tested positive for Covid 19 , the study found . 
Researchers believe the first documented patient in the outbreak was the father of the bride , who traveled to Jordan from Spain , where community spread was already taking place at the time . 
Of those who tested positive , 76 attended the wedding and nine were close contacts of confirmed cases from the event . 
All positive cases were admitted to the hospital for monitoring . 
Nearly half of the 76 patients who tested positive and attended the wedding were asymptomatic at the time of diagnoses . 
Four of the 9 cases that tested positive but did not attend the wedding were symptomatic , with symptoms starting between 9 and 19 days after the wedding . 
Only two patients had serious or critical conditions , including an 80 year old woman with breast cancer who developed pneumonia and respiratory failure , dying two weeks after being admitted to the hospital for monitoring . 
One woman gave birth to a healthy baby on the second day of being admitted to the hospital for monitoring . 
Cases in the outbreak may have been undercounted because possible asymptomatic patients had either shed the virus or have not yet started when tested , researchers said . 
Researchers said their findings show one infected person " can transmit the disease to 2-3 other susceptible persons . " 
