The UK 's troubled response to the coronavirus pandemic became even more confused on Monday , as government guidance seemingly at odds with itself rolled out across England , pushing the four nations of the UK further apart . 
From Monday , employers in England can ask staff to return to workplaces if they believe they are Covid 19 safe . 
When the policy was announced by Prime Minister Boris Johnson last month , he was accused of " passing the buck on this big decision to employers " by the UK 's Trades Union Congress ( TUC ) . 
The TUC criticized the government for announcing such a move while the country 's widely criticized test and trace infrastructure was " still patchy . " 
Also launching on Monday is an eye catching government scheme , " Eat Out to Help Out , " aimed at getting restaurants back on their feet as the UK 's furlough scheme comes to an end . 
Throughout August , people dining out from Monday to Wednesday are to be offered a 50 % discount -- limited to £ 10 ( $ 13 ) per person -- and not including alcoholic drinks . 
Both policies are part of a wider plan to get the UK 's economy moving after months of lockdown kept many Brits stuck indoors and working from home while businesses in the hospitality industry that relied on their custom were forced to stop operating . 
But these moves to soften coronavirus prevention measures , in order to restart the economy , come at the same time as cases are rising in Europe . 
Last week , Johnson himself warned that " the risk is starting to bubble up again , " on the continent , adding : " I 'm afraid you are starting to see in some places the signs of a second wave of the pandemic . " 
In the UK several localized mini lockdowns have been implemented , as fears of that second wave move from possible to probable . 
These localized containment measures have created a particularly stark situation in areas like Manchester , where it is now against the rules to meet family members in a back garden , and yet absolutely fine , according to the rules , to go to a restaurant . 
The move marks a significant shift towards prioritizing economic recovery ahead of other issues , including public health . 
Read the full story here . 
