Thursday saw a major milestone in the authorization process for a Covid 19 vaccine in the US -- a milestone that comes as the country is deep into a health crisis that is only worsening . 
The Food and Drug Administration 's Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee voted to recommend the agency grant emergency use authorization ( EUA ) to Pfizer and Bio NTech 's Covid 19 vaccine . 
The agency will now decide whether to accept that recommendation , but has signaled it is likely to do so . 
Officials are scheduled to meet again next week to discuss Moderna 's EUA application . 
The vote , Dr . Anthony Fauci said , is a " very important step . " 
While the green light for a Covid 19 vaccine will offer a light at the end of the tunnel , leading experts have warned the worst days of the pandemic are still ahead for the US . 
More case surges are likely to take shape as a result of Thanksgiving travels and gatherings that could drive infection numbers even higher . 
The US is now averaging more than 210,000 new cases daily . 
Hospitalization numbers break records daily -- with Thursday reporting the highest number of Covid 19 patients nationwide since the pandemic 's start : more than 107,200 , according to the COVID Tracking Project . 
A CNN analysis of newly released data from the US Department of Health and Human Services showed that at least 200 hospitals across the US were at full capacity last week . 
And more than 90 % of ICU beds were occupied in a third of all hospitals . 
And the virus is claiming more American lives each day than ever before . 
Wednesday saw the highest daily death toll the US has reported since the start of the pandemic , with a staggering 3,124 Covid 19 deaths . 
More than 2,700 deaths were reported Thursday . 
" We are in the time frame now that probably for the next 60 to 90 days , we 're going to have more deaths per day than we had in 9/11 , " said Dr . Robert Redfield , director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) . 
Read the full story : 
