Former New Jersey Gov . 
Chris Christie , in his first televised interview since his release from the hospital , reiterated that no contact tracing was done by the White House after he tested positive for Covid 19 . 
Christie said he has spoken to the President " a number of times , " both when he was in the hospital and since he returned home when asked whether he tried to advocate tor mask usage , adding that he ’s been calling for mask usage " all along , " but " everybody 's going to make their own decisions on that . " 
" We should be very affirmative . 
Leaders , all across the politics , sports , the media , should be saying to people , put your masks on and be safe until we get a vaccine that could help to protect us , " he said . 
He blamed political polarization for the mixed wearing of masks in the US . 
Christie expressed regret , reiterating his statement that it was a " big mistake " not to wear a mask while he was at the White House for debate prep and the Amy Coney Barrett nomination event and made a push for leaders to " be even more affirmative " about mask usage . 
" It was a mistake . 
You know , I was led to believe that , you know , all the people that I was interacting with at the White House had been tested and it gave you a false sense of security , and it was a mistake . 
You know I 've been so careful George for seven months because of my asthma , wearing masks , washing my hands , social distancing and for seven months , I was able to avoid the virus and one of the worst hit states in the country in New Jersey . 
But I let my guard down . 
And it was wrong , it was just a big mistake , " he said . 
" I let my guard down for a couple of days inside the White House grounds , and it costs me in a significant way , " he added . 
Christie said he received the Eli Lilly antibody treatment as well as Remdesivir during his time in the intensive care unit . 
Some context : The White House told staff in an email last week that it had completed " all contact tracing " for positive Covid 19 cases identified at the White House , and urged anyone who had not been contacted and suspected they had contact with someone infected by the virus to reach out to the White House Medical Office . 
However , New York Times White House correspondent and CNN contributor Michael Shear , who tested positive for the virus following direct interaction with White House officials , told CNN late Tuesday that there 's been no outreach by the White House to do contact tracing or to follow up on his condition . 
At least one other White House official told CNN that they 've also alerted officials that they have had direct contact with positive White House personnel and received no guidance on how to proceed . 
Hear what he said : 
