Dozens of people in Beijing have tested positive for coronavirus over the weekend as the Chinese government races to contain the spread of the virus in the capital . 
Local authorities tested more than 76,000 people on Sunday , of whom 59 tested positive , city officials said today . 
Beijing had not reported any new cases for almost two months until Thursday . 
Since then , the city has reported 79 confirmed cases , almost all of which are linked to a wholesale food market , according to the National Health Commission , which has called the situation in Beijing " severe and uncertain . " 
Market shut , mass testing : On Saturday Beijing shut down the Xinfadi wholesale food market , the biggest of its kind in the country , and launched mass testing for anyone who had visited the market since May 30 and their close contacts . 
Declaring " wartime emergencies " in parts of the city , local officials have sealed off the market and at least 11 neighborhoods in the surrounding area , as well as placed a growing number of other neighborhoods where new cases were reported under lockdown . 
Officials are tracking those who visited the market : On Monday , Beijing officials said nearly 30,000 people had been to the market during the 14 day period before its closure . 
The city has ordered people who had visited the market recently and their close contacts to stay at home for two weeks for medical observation . 
Several local officials , including the deputy head of the district where the market is located , have been fired , the government announced Monday . 
Traces of the virus found : A market official told state media Friday that traces of the virus were found in multiple environmental samples taken from the market , including chopping boards used to chop imported salmon , prompting supermarkets and restaurants in the city to pull the fish off of their shelves and menus . 
Beijing officials have since said genetic sequencing indicated the virus found in the market is similar to strains normally found in Europe , and vowed to strength inspections of all cargos from overseas . 
