The World Health Organization today addressed confusion surrounding an official 's comments on Monday suggesting the spread of Covid 19 by asymptomatic people " appears to be rare . " 
Maria Van Kerkhove , WHO 's technical lead for coronavirus response and head of its emerging diseases and zoonoses unit , said yesterday that " it still seems to be rare that an asymptomatic person actually transmits onward to a secondary individual . " 
But then today , during the live Q&A , she clarified that " this is a major unknown . " 
" We do know that some people who are asymptomatic or some people who do not have symptoms can transmit the virus on — so what we need to better understand is how many people in the population do not have symptoms , " Van Kerkhove said . 
She explained further : Dr . Mike Ryan , executive director of the WHO Health Emergencies Programme , also said during the live Q&A that there is still much to learn about the possible asymptomatic spread of the coronavirus . 
" Whatever proportion of disease is transmitting from asymptomatic individuals , as Maria said , that is unknown , " Ryan said . 
" There ’s much to be answered about this , there ’s much unknown . " 
Ryan added that the virus , a pathogen that is present in the upper respiratory tract , transmits through droplets — such as when someone coughs or sneezes , but some research also suggests it can spread through speaking as well . 
Previously , on Monday , Van Kerkhove said that what appear to be asymptomatic cases of Covid 19 often turn out to be cases of mild disease . 
" When we actually go back and we say how many of them were truly asymptomatic , we find out that many have really mild disease , " Van Kerkhove said on Monday . 
Remember : A truly asymptomatic person does not have symptoms and does not go on to develop symptoms of Covid 19 . 
Whereas , the term paucisymptomatic refers to having atypical or very mild symptoms and pre symptomatic refers to the early stages of an illness , before symptoms have developed . 
The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates in planning scenarios that 40 % of coronavirus transmission is occurring before people feel sick . 
