Drugmaker Astra Zeneca announced on Monday that its experimental coronavirus vaccine has shown an average efficacy of 70 % in large scale trials — the latest of several vaccine trials worldwide to post their results this month . 
The news follows Pfizer and Bio NTech announcement Friday that they submitted to the US Food and Drug Administration for emergency use authorization for their coronavirus vaccine candidate . 
The agency could make a decision early next month about whether to issue an emergency use authorization , according to a source . 
Here 's a look at the major developments announced by Covid 19 vaccine makers : Nov . 20 : Pfizer submitted their application for emergency use authorization to the Food and Drug Administration . 
Pfizer announced last week that its vaccine has a 95 % efficacy rate . 
They included more data than they have before – looking at 170 confirmed cases of Covid 19 , and they said it has 94 % efficacy for people 65 + . 
Dec . 10 : The FDA advisory committee will meet to discuss Pfizer ’s EUA application . 
If given a green light , the CDC 's vaccine advisory committee will meet within 24-48 hours and make a recommendation on who should be first to get the vaccine . 
Shots in arms are expected to begin after that recommendation is made , likely on determination of priority . 
Based on current projections , Pfizer expects to produce up to 50 million vaccine doses in 2020 , and up to 1.3 billion doses in 2021 . 
They have not said how much of that would be for the US . 
Pfizer said last week it would test distribution of its coronavirus vaccine candidate in four states to see how hard it will be to deal with a product that has to be kept at temperatures well below the capacity of standard freezers . 
Nov . 17 : Moderna announced efficacy results from a data safety monitoring board ( DSMB ) . 
Initial results show 94.5 % efficacy , with no significant side effects . 
FDA and CDC will make their determinations and recommendations , similar to the process outlined above for Pfizer . 
Moderna expects to have 20 million doses ready for the US by the end of the year . 
Same timeline as outlined by Dr . Anthony Fauci for Pfizer . 
Nov . 23 : Astra Zeneca announced their vaccine candidate has shown an average efficacy of 70 % . 
This week : The company will show data to the FDA and regulators in Europe . 
Nov . 19 : Johnson & Johnson announced they expect efficacy results by January or February of 2021 . 
The trial expects to reach its enrollment goal of 60,000 participants by the end of the year . 
Nov . 9 : The vaccine maker announced last week it received fast track designation from the FDA for its vaccine candidate . 
Novavax expects to begin its Phase 3 trial in the US and Mexico by the end of November . 
The vaccine candidate will require two doses with hopes to deliver 100 million units by the end of the year . 
Nov . 12 : Biopharmaceutical company Medicago and Glaxo Smith Kline announced that Phase 2/3 clinical trials are set to begin for a Covid 19 vaccine candidate . 
The trial evaluates the efficacy , safety and immunogenicity of Medicago 's experimental vaccine combined with Glaxo Smith Kline 's booster . 
The Phase 3 part of the study will start before the end of this year and will evaluate the efficacy and safety of the vaccine candidate compared to a placebo in more than 30,000 subjects across North America , Latin America and/or Europe and within the same population – or a broader one pending approval by regulatory authorities . 
