The UK government has axed Public Health England ( PHE ) — the agency behind England 's pandemic response — to replace it with a new national health institute . 
The agency will be called The National Institute for Health Protection ( NIHP ) and will be headed by conservative peer Dido Harding , who has been running England ’s widely criticized National Health Service ( NHS ) Test and Trace system . 
UK media reports have likened it to Germany ’s Robert Koch Institute , a federal government agency and research institute responsible for disease control and prevention , which handled the country ’s coronavirus response . 
The UK has recorded 41,454 coronavirus deaths — with the majority in England — while Germany has recorded 9,240 , according to the John Hopkins University map . 
NIHP will be formalized and operating from Spring 2021 but its work will start immediately " with a single command structure to advance the country ’s response to the Covid 19 pandemic , " according to the UK government ’s website . 
" From today [ Tuesday ] it will bring together Public Health England ( PHE ) and NHS Test and Trace , as well as the analytical capability of the Joint Biosecurity Centre ( JBC ) under a single leadership team . 
This is the first step towards becoming a single organization , focused on tackling Covid 19 and protecting the nation ’s health , " the government statement said . 
Some background : PHE has come under repeated fire for its handling of the pandemic , including testing issues and personal protective equipment procurement problems . 
However , ultimately it is a government agency that reports to the Health Secretary Matt Hancock . 
Hancock announced the axing of PHE , saying the new National Institute for Health Protection " will have a single and relentless mission : protecting people from external threats to this country 's health . " 
This includes biological weapons , pandemics and of course infection diseases of all kinds , he said . 
He said the changes would strengthen the UK 's response to the pandemic in a joined up response and admitted " we did not go into this crisis with the capacity for a response to a once in a century scale event . " 
Hancock explained the institute will also work closely with the devolved administrations of Scotland , Northern Ireland and Wales " taking on existing UK wide responsibilities and supporting all four . " 
" My single biggest fear is a novel flu , or another major health alert , hitting us right now in the middle of this battle against coronavirus . 
Even once this crisis has passed , and it will pass , we need a disease control infrastructure that gives us the permanent , standing capacity to respond as a nation and the ability to scale up at pace , " Hancock said . 
The NHS coronavirus tracing app Dido spearheaded was set to play a key part in helping the country out of lockdown , and government officials had said it would be rolled out nationally in mid May . 
However , it was never launched nationally and was scrapped in a government U turn in favor of a system developed jointly by Google and Apple in June . 
It is still in the trial stage . 
