Researchers in Germany have found possible evidence of the spread of coronavirus on a four hour flight . 
In March , early in the pandemic , two airline passengers developed coronavirus infections after sitting through a nearly five hour long flight , the researchers said . 
It all started with an infected hotel manager . 
A week before the flight , 24 travelers had contact with a hotel manager who later tested positive for Covid 19 , according to research published in the journal JAMA Network Open on Tuesday . 
They all were among 102 passengers on the four hour 40 minute Boeing 737-900 flight from Tel Aviv to Frankfurt . 
None of the passengers had received Covid 19 diagnoses before the flight . 
That early on in the pandemic , there were no mitigation measures in place and passengers were not asked to wear masks . 
Researchers from the Institute for Medical Virology at Goethe University in Frankfurt , Germany examined 24 patients from a tourist group and tested them for coronavirus . 
Most of the other passengers were also contacted four to five weeks later for interviews . 
Seven members of the tourist group tested positive for Covid 19 . 
Four were symptomatic during the flight , two were presymptomatic and one remained asymptomatic , according to the researchers . 
" We discovered 2 likely SARS Co V 2 transmissions on this flight , with seven index cases , " the researchers wrote . 
The two people who may have been infected on the flight were sitting at the back of the plane , directly across the aisle from the seven infected passengers seated in a cluster . 
" These transmissions may have also occurred before or after the flight , " the researchers wrote . 
Just over 90 % of the other flight passengers completed interviews with the researchers . 
One passenger reported testing positive for Covid 19 four days after the flight , but did not recall having any symptoms . 
The risk of transmission on a plane depends on a number of factors , including closeness to an index patient and movement of passengers and crew . 
