It 's past midnight in Rio de Janeiro and approaching 9 a.m . in New Delhi . 
If you 're just tuning in , here are the latest updates on the Covid 19 pandemic that you may have missed : India loosens lockdown : The country has begun lifting some of its coronavirus related restrictions , including shortening the nationwide curfew and allowing some states and territories to decide if they want to resume intrastate and interstate travel . 
The first phase of the three part reopening formally begins on June 8 . 
South America cases rising : Things continue to look bleak in the world 's newest Covid 19 epicenter . 
Brazil has now recorded more than 514,000 cases of the virus , more than any country except for the United States . 
Meanwhile , the number of cases recorded in hard hit Peru rose to over 164,000 on Sunday . 
Holy sites reopening : Life is beginning to return to normal at some of the world 's most prominent places of worship . 
One of the holiest sites in Jerusalem , known to Muslims as the Noble Sanctuary and to Jews as the Temple Mount , reopened Sunday morning for the first time in more than two months . 
The compound is the holiest site in the world for Jews and the third holiest site for Muslims . 
Crowds also returned to St . Peter ’s Square in the Vatican City on Sunday as Pope Francis gave his traditional greeting from his window for the first time since lockdown began in Italy nearly three months ago . Italy 's positive signs : The number of coronavirus patients in Italy continues to decline . 
Active cases decreased by more than 1,600 over a 24 hour period , according to figures released by the country 's Civil Protection Agency on Sunday . 
The statement said that there has been a decrease of at least 1,616 cases since Saturday ’s figures , bringing the total number to approximately 42,075 . 
Queen goes riding : On a lighter note , Queen Elizabeth II was photographed riding a pony on the grounds of Windsor Castle -- her first photographed appearance since the coronavirus lockdown started in the UK . 
