Boris Johnson will urge world leaders to overcome their differences and unite in the battle against coronavirus as he outlines measures to prevent future pandemics . 
The UK prime minister is set to tell foreign counterparts at the United Nations General Assembly that the " notion of the international community looks tattered " after the Covid crisis . 
He will call for states to " reach across borders and repair these ugly rifts " , as he announces a plan , developed with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and The Wellcome Trust , to help stop future pandemics . 
The proposals include developing a global network of " zoonotic hubs " to identify dangerous pathogens before they jump from animals to humans , as well as improving manufacturing capacity for treatments and vaccines . 
Other measures include designing a global pandemic early warning system , improving the ability to collect and analyse samples and distribute the findings , and agreeing common protocols on information sharing to PPE supplies around the world . 
Johnson is also proposing states reduce trade barriers on Covid critical products , such as soap , to help the global response , and he will commit 500 million in aid funding for the Covax vaccines procurement pool to help poor countries access a coronavirus jab . 
In a pre recorded speech to be played on Saturday afternoon , the Prime Minister will say : " After nine months of fighting Covid , the very notion of the international community looks tattered . 
" We know that we cannot continue in this way . 
Unless we unite and turn our fire against our common foe , we know that everyone will lose . 
" Now is the time therefore , here at what I devoutly hope will be the first and last ever Zoom UNGA , for humanity to reach across borders and repair these ugly rifts . 
" Here in the UK , the birthplace of Edward Jenner who pioneered the world ’s first vaccine , we are determined to do everything in our power to work with our friends across the UN to heal those divisions and to heal the world . " 
Romilly Greenhill , UK director of The One Campaign , which fights extreme poverty and preventable disease , said : " This is powerful leadership from the British Government at a moment when it could not be more important . " 
