Children and young people are far less likely than adults to get severe cases of Covid 19 infection , and death from the pandemic disease among children is exceptionally rare , according to UK research published on Thursday . 
A study of Covid 19 patients admitted to 138 hospitals in Britain found that less than 1 % were children , and of those fewer than 1 % - or six in total - died , all of whom were already suffering serious illness or underlying health disorders . 
Malcolm Semple , a professor of outbreak medicine and child health at Britain ’s University of Liverpool , who co led the work , said : We can be quite sure that Covid in itself is not causing harm to children on a significant scale . 
The highest level message really has to be that ( in children with Covid 19 ) severe disease is rare , and death is vanishingly rare - and that ( parents ) should be comforted that their children are not at direct harm by going back into school . 
Global data on the spread of the coronavirus pandemic shows that children and young people make up only 1-2 % of cases of Covid 19 worldwide . 
The vast majority of reported infections in children are mild or asymptomatic , with few recorded deaths . 
For this study , published in the BMJ medical journal , Semple ’s team looked at data from 651 babies and children under 19 who were hospitalised with Covid 19 between 17 January and 3 July . 
The six children who died all had " profound comorbidity " , the researchers said , and this was a " strikingly low " fatality rate compared with a 27 % across all age groups - from 0-106 years - of Covid 19 patients hospitalised in the same period . 
While the overall risk of children getting severe Covid is " tiny " , the researchers said , children of Black ethnicity and those with obesity are disproportionately affected , as previous studies in adults have found . 
The study also showed that children can have a cluster of symptoms including sore throat , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , diarrhoea and rash alongside already recognised Covid 19 symptoms of fever , breathlessness and cough . 
