About 5 million people in Australia 's second most populous city , Melbourne , are contending with some of the harshest restrictions ever imposed on the city after authorities declared a " state of disaster " on Sunday . 
Police patrolled deserted streets Sunday night , enforcing an overnight curfew from 8 p.m . to 5 a.m . as part of stage four lockdown measures imposed to battle a widening coronavirus outbreak . 
Those restrictions include a curfew in Melbourne for the next six weeks , a ban on wedding gatherings , and schools must go back to online classes . 
Only one person per household is allowed to leave their homes once a day -- outside of curfew hours -- to pick up essential goods , and they must stay within a five kilometer ( 3.1 miles ) radius of their home . 
On Monday , further businesses restrictions were announced , including the shuttering of nonessential industries . 
The state of Victoria , of which Melbourne is the largest city , recorded 429 Covid 19 infections on Sunday , down from 671 cases the day before , according to Victoria 's Chief Health Officer professor Brett Sutton . 
Thirteen new deaths were also announced , bringing the state 's total to 136 , and there have been a total of 11,937 confirmed infections . 
Sunday 's announcement underscores how quickly early success in containing the virus can unravel . 
In May , Australia was held up as a global model for its handling of the outbreak , which started with early measures to bar entry from high risk countries . 
Stricter curbs on social gatherings , expanded testing , restaurant and bar closures , followed as cases rose , with some states sealing their borders . 
But Covid 19 cases in Victoria have risen suddenly in recent weeks , with many new infections in elderly care homes and among health care workers . 
Eight of the 13 new deaths on Sunday are linked to known outbreaks in elderly care facilities . 
" This six week period is absolutely critical , " said Victoria state Premier Daniel Andrews in a daily press briefing on Monday . 
" This is a very tough day , and there will be many more of those until we get to the end of this . " 
Read more : 
