Health care workers are putting themselves at risk of infection during a coronavirus pandemic , even if they do not work directly with coronavirus patients , a research letter published Wednesday in the New England Journal of Medicine found . 
Researchers from Fujian Medical University Union Hospital in Fuzhou , China , looked at patient records in that country and found that 3,387 of the 77,262 patients with Covid 19 – 4.4 % – were health care workers . 
As of April 3 , there are 23 people who have died . 
Many of the health care workers who died were in demographic categories that might have put them at a higher risk for severe infection . 
Eleven had been brought back from retirement , and all but three were age 50 or older . 
Five had underlying health conditions , including heart problems . 
Of the 23 who died , 13 had been providing direct patient care , but only two worked in respiratory medicine with coronavirus patients . 
None were actually working in departments that specialized in infectious disease or worked in a hospital with that specialty . 
Eight were surgeons , 1 was a nurse and 1 was an electrocardiography technician . 
Researchers believe that the health care workers who got sick or who died may have become infected in the early stages of the epidemic when there was insufficient or inadequate personal protective equipment . 
As of March 31 , none of the 4,600 health care workers that flooded into Hubei Province to care for patients at the initial center of the outbreak were known to get sick , the research found . 
Dr . Peter Hotez , professor and dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine , who did not work on the study but has been sounding the alarm since early on in the pandemic that health care workers would be at risk , called the deaths " devastating . " 
" We saw this with SARS 1 in 2003 , MERS in 2012 , and now we ’re seeing it again . 
So this is the modus operandi of coronaviruses , " Hoetz said . 
In the US : So far , more than 9,200 health care workers have been infected with Covid 19 , according to an early report from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , published Tuesday . 
" We had a heads up and we still could not do anything to protect our healthcare workers , " Hotez said . 
" That ’s terrible . " 
