Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Wednesday that he " ca not speculate " as to whether another stimulus bill will pass in the near term , days after negotiations came to a stalemate . 
He also called for a capital gains tax cut and made a rare ( for him ) criticism of Joe Biden ’s economic policies . 
He railed against House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer , who he said are " just not willing to compromise . " 
His message to negotiators : " Let ’s do this , " suggesting that there could be an approximately $ 1 trillion bill now and perhaps another later this year or in early 2021 . 
" This will be the fifth bill , we can always come back later in the year , or in January , and do a sixth bill , we do not need to do everything at once … Our view is , let 's spend a little over a trillion dollars on areas of the economy that are going to be very impactful now , that we can agree on . 
And if we need to do more , we 'll come back and do more and work together but now is the time to have bipartisan support , " he said . 
Mnuchin also reiterated the President ’s suggestion that the administration is considering a capital gains tax cut , which would require legislation . 
" Well , the President like would like to do , capital gains tax cuts and we do need legislation to do what we want on that front , " he said , going on to explain how previous similar cuts stimulated economic investment . 
" That 's what we need now because of Covid . 
So I think for the next few years while we recover , we should reduce those capital gains , " he added , going on to , in an unusual move for Mnuchin , criticize Joe Biden for voting against a capital gains reduction in 2003 and drawing contrasts on policy with the Democratic ticket . 
" So again you see two very different economic policies . 
One is tax more and hurt the economy , one is create selective tax cuts regulatory relief and economic agenda trades that will stimulate the economy , " he said . 
