CNN ’s Anderson Cooper and Chief Medical Correspondent Dr . Sanjay Gupta Saturday hosted a Coronavirus : Facts and Fears town hall on Saturday with former directors of the US Centers for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and other health experts . 
Here are the highlights : US Covid 19 cases expected to surge : The US could record nearly 400,000 coronavirus related deaths by February 1 , according to Dr . Chris Murray , a researcher behind an influential coronavirus model from the University of Washington . 
Daily deaths will likely peak in the middle of January , he said . 
40 million people could be infected in US : Coronavirus infections in the US are likely much higher than the 7.6 million recorded so far by Johns Hopkins University and the Covid Tracking Project , said Dr . Tom Frieden , former director of the US CDC . 
" Almost certainly , there have actually been more than 40 million people infected by this virus in the US . " 
20,000 people could die by end of the month : Dr . Frieden also predicted that with the current surge in cases , another 20,000 people in the US could die from the virus by the end of the month . 
" From the infections that have already occurred , we will see something like 20,000 deaths by the end of the month -- additional deaths , " he said . 
True number of coronavirus deaths in the US over 250,000 : Frieden suggested the true number of coronavirus deaths in the US is well over 250,000 . 
He said a lot of the confusion about Covid 19 mortality rates was the result of the way fatalities are listed on death certificates . 
Hope over vaccine : Dr . David Satcher , a former director of the CDC , said he hopes a Covid 19 vaccine " can make a difference . " 
He said : " I do not think that we are at the point of no return ... 
We 're pursuing some important things as it relates to new vaccines . 
There 's a lot of hope there , that we can come up with a vaccine that can make a difference . " 
Transparency is key for vaccines : If the government wants more Americans to take a coronavirus vaccine when one becomes available , it will have to start telling the truth and being consistent , said Dr . Julie Gerberding . 
" It is about regaining trust , and trust depends first and foremost on telling the truth , even when it 's hard , " she said . 
