Important conversations are continuing in Washington around who in the United States will be among the first to receive a coronavirus vaccine once one becomes available , health officials said during a Senate appropriations hearing on Thursday . 
Dr . Robert Redfield , director of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , said in the hearing that the CDC 's Advisory Committee on Immunization Practice has been mulling over who should be prioritized . 
ACIP held a meeting last week during which it was considered that maybe the highest priority should be given to health care personnel and essential workers . 
In a previous ACIP meeting , some other proposed priority groups that were discussed included adults ages 65 and older , long term care facility residents , people with high risk underlying medical conditions and pregnant women , among others . 
" Depending on which vaccine is approved , it might have particular characteristics making it more or less appropriate in given populations , " Redfield said on Thursday . 
" At the end of the day , it ’s really going to be dependent on the characteristics of the particular vaccine product . " 
Such discussions around how the vaccine should be distributed could extend beyond ACIP , said Dr . Francis Collins , director of the National Institutes of Health . 
" This may be a moment to actually bring together a group of big thinkers who could take a high level view of this and lay out a value of principles that could be utilized by the CDC committee ACIP , " Collins said during Thursday 's hearing . 
" That might be something best done by an organization that is not itself governmental , " Collins told lawmakers . 
" We are having a conversation very early on with the National Academy of Medicine about whether they would be the place to convene such a discussion , and we can keep you posted on that . " 
Sen . 
Lamar Alexander , a Republican from Tennessee , said during the hearing " put me down as thinking that 's a good idea " in regard to including the National Academy of Medicine in discussions around vaccine distribution . 
