On July 30 , during broader negotiations over the coronavirus relief legislation inside Speaker Nancy Pelosi ’s office , Sen . 
Chuck Schumer asked the White House officials in the room how things were going on the vaccine effort , according to two sources familiar with the meeting . 
It was at that point Meadows and Mnuchin walked through the various pieces of vaccine development , and then suggested that the Astra Zeneca effort could be ready by September . 
As the conversation continued , the White House officials raised the possibility of an emergency use authorization before phase three trials were completed . 
At that point , Speaker Nancy Pelosi interrupted to tell Mnuchin and Meadows there should be no cutting of corners during the vaccine development process . 
The Financial Times first reported the details of the July meeting . 
A senior administration official previously told CNN there have not been any discussions about fast tracking the Astra Zeneca vaccine before the November election . 
However , this person did not rule out the possibility of an EUA on a vaccine before full approval if there is sufficient data -- although this person said the FDA would not be pushed around on the science of a vaccine . 
Michael Caputo , the assistant secretary for public affairs at the US Department of Health and Human Services , on Sunday denied that there was any effort to fast track vaccine development for political purposes . 
" This is not true , do not believe it . 
Talk of an October surprise vaccine plot is a lurid Resistance fantasy designed to undermine the President ’s Coronavirus response . 
And nobody , but nobody , among the career FDA regulators I know will ever stand quietly for political pressure , " Caputo said . 
Meadows on Monday morning also dismissed concerns that there ’s political pressure to fast track a vaccine , reiterating how Operation Warp Speed will produce vaccines in phase three trials . 
" Yeah that 's not happening . 
I can tell you we 're going through a standard clinical process like any other drug would happen and then what we 're speeding up is the non testing side of it , " he said . 
Additional reporting from Betsy Klein , Joe Johns , Elizabeth Cohen , and Jeremy Diamond 
