The seven new cases of coronavirus detected in Ireland include the first confirmed case of community transmission , since the patient had not travelled to an infected area . 
The case of community transmission is a man in Cork with an underlying medical condition . 
He had not travelled to Italy or been in contact with other confirmed cases . 
He is being treated at Cork University Hospital , which announced it was cancelling outpatient appointments on Friday . 
All outpatient appointments in CUH have been cancelled for tomorrow Friday 6th March - patients will be contacted and rescheduled as soon as possible . 
Strict visiting restrictions remain in place . 
We apologise for any inconvenience caused . 
Ireland ’s chief medical officer Dr Tony Holohan said the country remains in the containment phase , but warned it is a " rapidly evolving situation " and urged a " national effort " to stymie potential spread . 
Ireland remains in containment phase with just one case of community transmission . 
Public health doctors are working hard to ensure our containment measures are operating effectively . 
Most people who become infected with covid 19 experience a mild illness and recover , but it can be more severe for some . 
However , this will need a national effort . 
Every individual needs to be aware of how to protect their own health and the health of others . 
The Health Service Executive said in a statement on Thursday night it was working rapidly to identify any contacts the patients may have had to prevent further spread . 
One of the cases confirmed on Wednesday – a member of a family of four in the west of Ireland – is a health professional , it has emerged . 
Four of the latest cases are travel related from northern Italy , involving four males from the east of the country . 
Two are associated with close contact with a confirmed case and involve two females in the west of the country . 
The seventh case is a male , who the Department of Health have described as being " associated with Cork University Hospital " and that is the first case of community transmission . 
A risk assessment is under way at the hospital . 
There are now 13 confirmed covid 19 cases in the Republic of Ireland , as well as three in Northern Ireland - bringing the total number of cases on the island to 16 . 
