Amid evidence pointing to a wild animal and seafood market in Wuhan as a possible epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak , considerable attention has been paid to the trade in wild animals in parts of China . 
On Monday , officials announced a temporary suspension of the trade nationwide , which will not be lifted " until the epidemic is declared over . " 
Violators could face criminal prosecution . 
Much coverage of the trade , particularly in the western tabloid press , has been sensationalist , often featuring misleading videos or photos that have no connection to Wuhan or the current outbreak . 
One widely shared video , of a Chinese travel blogger eating bat stoup , was filmed in the Pacific island nation of Palau , and the dish has been featured and sampled by western TV hosts in the past . 
There has also been a tendency to conflate the eating of non endangered wild animals with the trade in elephant and rhino parts , which is illegal in China , as in most countries . 
The former may be foreign and even gross to some , but it 's not necessarily any more unethical than eating other meat , especially given the poor conditions on some factory farms . 
Another point that has been overlooked in much breathless coverage of wild animal meat is how niche its consumption is in China . 
Indeed , many of the comments on western social media have been mirrored ( without the racist undercurrent ) on Chinese platforms , where # Reject Game Meat quickly went viral and those who consumed such products were denounced as irresponsible , dirty , or worse . 
Nor does the wild animal trade -- if indeed it was the genesis of the current coronavirus -- have a monopoly on deadly pathogens . 
Both swine and bird flu came from animals widely consumed around the world , as James Palmer points out in Foreign Policy . 
This context matters , because as any person of Chinese or Asian heritage abused for being " dog eaters " knows , such stories quickly become a way to other entire cultures and ethnicities . 
( Eating dog , by the way , is incredibly rare in much of China , and even the majority of people in the one town that actively promotes it do not eat the meat . ) 
