Sam Foster , the chief nursing officer at Oxford ’s acute hospital trust , administered the first doses of the Pfizer/Bio NTech vaccine at the city ’s Churchill hospital this morning . 
" I have been proud to play my part in delivering the first vaccinations on this historic day in our battle against the pandemic " , she said . 
Foster and a number of nurses who are experienced in vaccination together injected the vaccine into the shoulder of scores of people over 80 , most of whom are outpatients , some care workers and also some NHS staff classed as high risk because they have underlying health issues -- the first three priority groups to get the jabs . 
All the nurses involved are also " peer vaccinators " -- staff who usually administer the winter flu jab to colleagues in their area of care in a bid to encourage take up . 
" As such they are not just skilled at administering vaccines but also at dealing with people ’s anxieties and sensitivities " , a hospital source explained . 
Because the trust has only " limited supplies currently " of the vaccine , people from Oxfordshire , West Berkshire and Buckinghamshire wanting to be immunised should not ring their GP or the hospital and should instead wait for the NHS to contact them , Foster stressed . 
" This is a hugely significant moment in our pandemic response and offers hope at what has been a incredibly difficult year for us all " , said Dr Bruno Holtof ( corr ) , the chief executive of Oxford University Hospitals ( OUH ) NHS Foundation Trust , which runs the Churchill . 
" The strict approval process it has gone through means that the approved vaccine , and any other vaccines approved in the future , will not only be safe but will be our best defence against the virus " , Holtof added . 
The trust chose the Churchill rather than its main hospital , the John Radcliffe Infirmary , as the location for its rollout of the vaccine because it is quieter than the JRI and has been kept Covid free during the pandemic , because it is mainly a specialist cancer hospital . 
Staff have administered the jabs at what an official described as a carefully chosen " discreet part of the site " while people being immunised have reached there without going through the main hospital , again to promote social distancing . 
Everyone who receives their first dose is automatically booked in at the time for their second one three weeks later . 
Meanwhile , in Bristol , five staff from care home operators Brunelcare became some of the first social care staff in the country to have the vaccine . 
" The vaccine was quick and painless , and I ’d encourage anyone who has the opportunity to get the vaccine to take it " , said Lesley Hobbs , the manager of the charity ’s Deerhurst care home . 
She and her fellow workers were immunised at the city ’s Southmead hospital ; 
85 other colleagues are also booked in to have their first dose this week . 
Oona Goldsworthy , Brunelcare ’s chief executive , hailed the vaccine as " the lifeline we ’ve been waiting for in social care " . 
But , she added : " It is just the first step . 
We now await details of how and when the vaccine will be made available to our residents in our care homes " . 
