Two reports published Monday show that a pediatric inflammatory syndrome linked to Covid 19 can cause serious symptoms in children and can sometimes be deadly . 
They show that 80 % of patients with multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children ( MIS C ) were treated in intensive care . 
Most recovered but four children died and more than a quarter of the children in one study were still hospitalized as of May 20 . 
In one report , researchers from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention analyzed 186 cases from 26 states between March 15 and May 20 . 
Patients were hospitalized for a median of seven days ; 
20 % required ventilation to help them breathe , and 2 % — or four patients — died . 
The median age of patients was 8 years old ; just 7 % of patients were under a year old , most of the rest were between a year old and 14 , and 16 % were ages 15 to 20 . 
Most of the children — 70 % — tested positive for the infection by a test called PCR that finds direct evidence of the virus , or antibody testing , which finds evidence of past infection . 
The rest had been exposed to people with the virus in the past month , the researchers said . 
The CDC team said the timing of the illnesses suggests " a substantial proportion of the patients in this series were infected ... at least one to two weeks before the onset of MIS C . " Overall , 19 % were White , 25 % were Black , 31 % were Hispanic or Latino , and the ethnicity of 22 % was unknown . 
A second report by the New York State Department of Health looked at 99 children with suspected or confirmed MIS C hospitalized between March 1 and May 10 . 
In this study , median hospital stay was six days , and just over half the patients had evidence of myocarditis , or inflammation of the heart muscle . 
Both reports , published Monday in the New England Journal of Medicine , described how a majority of children with MIS C experienced symptoms including fever and chills , elevated heart rate , gastrointestinal problems and rash . 
On May 14 , the CDC issued a health advisory to doctors across the country , providing an official definition of the syndrome — called multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children ( MIS C ) — and telling physicians to be on the lookout . 
The agency describes MIS C as " a condition where different body parts can become inflamed , including the heart , lungs , kidneys , brain , skin , eyes , or gastrointestinal organs . " 
While it is still not known precisely what causes the syndrome , most children get better with medical care , the agency adds . 
