The United States now has 159 coronavirus cases , with the majority of infections in California and Washington states . 
Many cities across the country , including San Francisco and Seattle , and even entire states like Washington , have declared states of emergency . 
This allows the local and state authorities greater access to emergency resources and funding in preparation for a bigger outbreak . 
Federal agencies are also working on a response : the US military says military labs are working on a vaccine , while the US Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) just authorized health care workers to use a wider variety of respirators , giving them greater flexibility as face mask supplies run low . 
Delays in testing : However , the government has also hit snags . 
There are widespread concerns about the accessibility of testing kits , while a botched roll out of US Centers for Disease Control ( CDC ) testing , and strict criteria on who could be examined , caused a delay in testing . 
The US has only been able to perform about 3,600 tests so far -- especially striking when compared to countries like South Korea and in Europe , where thousands of tests are being run daily . 
The FDA commissioner initially said the US should be able to perform about 1 million tests by the end of this week -- but clarified later that there was a difference " between the ability to get the test kits out to the laboratories with the ability of the labs to actually do the tests . " 
Confusion between federal and state levels : There is also confusion around other federal policies , like quarantines and travel restrictions ; the Trump administration announced new rules in early February , but offered few details , leaving local officials scrambling to figure it out . 
San Antonio , Texas has even filed a lawsuit against the federal government over a disagreement in quarantine protocol . 
Among citizens , anxiety over the virus appears to be rising . 
Face masks and hand sanitizer have sold out in many places ; one California woman told CNN she visited 15 stores over two days , only to find a single box of masks available . 
Read more here : 
