Residents of China 's Hubei province -- ground zero of the coronavirus pandemic -- received good news today when government officials announced the lockdown they have been living under for the past few months will be lifted on Wednesday . 
For those in Wuhan , where the virus was first discovered , those restrictions are set to remain in place until April 8 . 
The announcement follows news that part of a popular section of China 's Great Wall will be reopened to the public . 
Mainland China 's coronavirus cases have slowed to a trickle . 
On Monday , the country reported the first case in Hubei province in six days . 
It was among 78 additional cases reported as of the end of day Monday -- 74 of them imported . 
And while nearly 82,000 people have been infected , 3,277 of whom have died , more than 73,000 have recovered . 
But while restrictions may be easing on the mainland , the country and its semiautonomous territories are tightening their borders to stem the number of imported cases . 
Beijing : Chinese authorities announced today that all international travelers arriving in Beijing , regardless of their final destinations , will be quarantined and tested for the coronavirus at designated government facilities at their own expense . 
The procedures will also apply to people arriving in Beijing after entering China through a different port of entry within the past 14 days . 
Hong Kong : On Monday , Chief Executive Carrie Lam said most non residents will be banned from entering Hong Kong from midnight Wednesday local time . 
Non Hong Kong residents arriving from Macao , Taiwan and mainland China will be allowed to enter the city , under the provision that they have not traveled abroad within the past 14 days . 
Travelers will also not be allowed to transit through the airport . 
The city 's government is also seeking to pass a law banning the sale of alcohol at bars with the aim of enforcing social distancing . 
Some 8,600 licensed bars , restaurants and private clubs have been asked to voluntarily stop selling alcohol before a law is potentially passed . 
The strict new measures come as the number of confirmed infections in the city has almost doubled in the past week , with many of the cases imported from overseas . 
Macao : Most non residents will be banned from entering the territory starting tomorrow , including all foreign nationals . 
Visitors from mainland China , Hong Kong and Taiwan who have not traveled to foreign countries can enter , but they will be required to undergo medical observation for 14 days . 
