There are more than 2,000 confirmed cases of the virus , and 56 deaths , worldwide as concern mounts about the rate of its spread . 
Here 's a rundown of what has been happening over the past few hours : Outbreak in China : Some 1,975 cases were confirmed in mainland China , with full or partial lockdowns in 15 Chinese cities as authorities attempt to limit the virus 's spread . 
The death toll rose to 56 , with all cases occurring within the country . 
Contagious before symptoms : People can spread the virus before symptoms show , China 's health minister said Sunday . 
If he 's correct , people who did not know they are ill have been spreading the virus . 
A veteran adviser for a US health agency called the news a " game changer . " 
Wild animal ban : The sale of all wild animals has been banned , the Chinese government announced Sunday . 
The outbreak , which emerged last month , has been linked to Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market in Wuhan . 
Authorities linked wild animals sold at the market as the likely source of the virus . 
More deployments : About 1,600 medical professionals are being sent to Wuhan on Sunday and Monday , amid videos and witness accounts showing packed hospitals and overworked staff . 
A new , 1,000 bed hospital is also being built on the city 's outskirts , to be ready by February 3 . 
International spread : Confirmed cases have risen beyond China . 
A man in California is now the third confirmed case in the United States . 
Malaysia , Singapore , Thailand and Macao have all reported an increase in infections . 
The African continent got its first suspected case , but authorities in Cote d 'Ivoire believe it might just be a case of pneumonia . 
Foreign nationals evacuated : Countries , like the US , Japan and France , are attempting to transport their citizens out of Wuhan . 
Anger in Hong Kong : Protests broke out Sunday over government plans to turn an unoccupied apartment building , called Fai Ming Estate , into a quarantine center . 
Hong Kong authorities have since rolled back on their announcement . 
