Editor 's Note : Jill Filipovic is a journalist based in New York and author of the book " OK Boomer , Let 's Talk : How My Generation Got Left Behind . " 
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely her own . 
Unless we act now , the US could be in for a long , hard , deadly winter . 
Covid 19 cases have ticked up in 21 states . 
In New York City , positive Covid 19 tests have increased so significantly that they 've driven the city 's positive rate above 3 % -- lower than in other parts of the US , but still the highest daily rate New York has seen since June . 
And Europe is already in its second wave , with the UK and France recording the most cases since the beginning of the pandemic and sobering signs from other countries such as the Czech Republic and Spain , where the health minister said Friday his government has recommended a total lockdown in Madrid . 
A perfect storm for a major Covid 19 resurgence looms in many parts of the world . 
With rates down and life returning to something resembling normal , a false sense of security seems to have taken hold , especially in the United States . 
Masks are coming off . 
Gatherings are getting bigger and personal safety protocols looser . 
Schools , gyms , salons and indoor restaurants are reopening . 
Many students have returned to college campuses , where they are already socializing in groups and spreading the virus . 
Temperatures outdoors are dropping , which will inevitably push many more people inside to dine , exercise , celebrate and socialize . 
Cases in some parts of Brooklyn and Queens " continue to grow at an alarming rate , " said the New York City health department Monday . 
Part time in person learning just began Tuesday for New York City schools , which as of a week ago had already seen Covid 19 cases in 100 buildings , according to The New York Times . 
The question , experts say , is not whether a second wave is coming ; it 's how devastating a second wave will be . 
Read the full opinion : 
