At least 14 members of the US House of Representatives and Senate - seven Republicans and seven Democrats - have tested positive or are presumed to have had Covid 19 since the coronavirus pandemic began earlier this year , with Representative Raul Grijalva becoming the latest on Saturday , Reuters reports . 
Grijalva , an Arizona Democrat , tested positive for the coronavirus but feels fine and has gone into isolation , he said in a statement on Saturday . 
Grijalva expressed frustration with the reluctance of some Republican lawmakers to wear masks , which can slow the spread of the virus . 
I have tested positive for COVID 19 . 
As a result , I will be self isolating in quarantine . 
I currently have no symptoms , feel fine , and hope to make a quick & amp ; speedy recovery . COVID 19 is not a joke & amp ; we should all take this seriously . 
My full statement : The Texas Republican Louie Gohmert , 66 , a staunch conservative , said on Wednesday he tested positive in a prescreening at the White House but did not have any symptoms . 
" It ’s really ironic , because a lot of people have made a big deal out of my not wearing a mask a lot . 
But in the last week or two , I have worn a mask more than I have in the whole last four months , " he said . 
Representative Morgan Griffith , 62 , a Virginia Republican and member of the conservative Freedom Caucus , said in mid July that he had tested positive . 
His office said he did not have significant symptoms . 
The South Carolina Republican Representative Tom Rice , 62 , said on Facebook in mid June that he , his wife and son had all tested positive for the coronavirus but that all were " on the mend . " 
Mike Kelly , 72 , a Republican from Pennsylvania , tested positive for the coronavirus in late March at a drive through testing site . 
He told an interviewer that it took him about a month to recover and that he lost 30 pounds ( 14 kg ) . 
The Utah Democrat Representative Ben Mc Adams caught the virus in March , was hospitalised and needed oxygen . 
After his release , he warned others to take the virus seriously . 
" I ’m young , I ’m 45 years old , I ’m healthy , I exercise every day and it hit me really hard , " he told ABC . 
Other affected lawmakers include Nydia Velazquez , 67 , a Democrat from New York , the Republican Florida Representative Mario Diaz Balart , 58 , and the Republican Kentucky Senator Rand Paul , 57 , who had said on 22 March that he had tested positive and was in quarantine . 
