New presumptive positive cases were identified today across the United States , reported in at least 17 states . 
Presumptive positive means the patients have tested positive in a local or public health lab , but their results are pending confirmation at the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) lab . 
Florida : One new presumptive positive case was identified in Broward County , according to a tweet from the Florida Department of Health . 
South Carolina : Four new presumptive positive cases were identified , according to the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control . 
Nevada : A second presumptive positive case was identified in Clark County , according to Southern Nevada Health District spokeswoman Jennifer Sizemore . 
California : Contra Costa County in Northern California five more cases , and Riverside County in Southern California confirmed its first " locally acquired " case . 
Kentucky : Three new presumptive positive cases were identified , Gov . 
Andy Beshear announced Sunday . 
Maryland : Two more people tested positive , according to a news release from Gov . 
Larry Hogan . 
Pennsylvania : Pennsylvania announced two new presumptive positive cases in Montgomery County on Sunday , according to the state 's Department of Health . 
Massachusetts : Massachusetts has confirmed 15 new cases , according to the state ’s Department of Health . 
Illinois : A Chicago man has been identified as Illinois ’s seventh case , according to the Chicago Department of Public Health commissioner . 
Washington : The Seattle and King County Health Department reported 12 new cases , two of which have been fatal . 
New Jersey : Two more cases were confirmed in New Jersey , the state ’s department of health posted today . 
Connecticut : The first confirmed case in Connecticut was announced by the state ’s department of health . 
Tennessee : A case was confirmed today in the Memphis area , announced Shelby County Mayor Lee Harris . 
New York : 16 new cases were confirmed in New York , Gov . 
Andrew Cuomo announced this morning . 
Iowa : Iowa has identified three presumptive positive cases -- the first cases in the state , according to the Iowa Department of Public Health . 
Minnesota : The second presumptive positive case was identified in Minnesota , according to a press release from the state Department of Health . 
Nebraska : Two new presumptive positive cases were identified in Nebraska , according to the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services . 
Texas : A new presumptive positive case was identified in Harris County . 
Georgia : Four new presumptive positive cases were identified in Georgia , according to the state 's Department of Public Health . 
