California ’s governor has granted an emergency release to Patricia Wright , a 69 year old woman battling terminal cancer inside a prison that has suffered a major outbreak . 
Wright , who doctors say has months to live , left prison on Tuesday morning for the first time in 23 years , greeted by her five children , three sisters and a dozen other relatives waiting on the other side of the gates at the California Institution for Women ( CIW ) , east of Los Angeles . 
The family ’s long fight for her release became increasingly urgent due to Covid 19 , which has infected more than 160 people at CIW and nearly 7,000 people across the state ’s prison system . 
" I ’ve been waiting for this day for 23 years , it is really indescribable , " said Wright , standing on the street outside CIW as her grandchildren and other loved ones swarmed her with hugs and handed her flowers and gifts , including her first i Phone . 
She danced and held her hands in the air . 
" Oh my God ! 
I ’m walking on cloud nine … I just want to sit down at the table with my family and embrace my children . " 
Wright , who has battled breast and ovarian cancer and is legally blind , is undergoing chemotherapy . 
She spoke of her fears of dying alone behind bars in recent interviews with the Guardian , and is one of tens of thousands of older and at risk prisoners who have been pleading for some form of clemency in response to Covid 19 . 
Since March , 40 prisoners have died and those numbers are expected to increase in the coming weeks . 
" For the past 23 years , I ’ve had this burden in my heart every day . 
I could not live fully thinking about my sister in prison , " said Chantel Bonet , who years earlier moved to the city of Corona , where the prison is located , so she could be closer to her sister . 
" Now that burden is lifted . " 
Wright , a survivor of domestic violence , was accused of hiring someone to kill her abusive husband but has maintained her innocence . 
She is one of many women convicted of murder under US laws that have faced widespread scrutiny for targeting victims of abuse . 
She was sentenced to life without the possibility of parole , meaning this kind of direct action from the governor was her only option . 
