As the deadly novel coronavirus spread throughout China and the world last month , it was clear that something had gone wrong . 
Officials in Hubei , the province at the center of the outbreak , were blamed for downplaying -- and potentially even deliberately covering up -- the severity of the virus , ignoring evidence that it spread from person to person until it was too late . 
Against this tale of irresponsibility there was another story being told in China , one of a competent central government which had been denied the full picture by local officials , and once it understood the true ramifications stepped in to take drastic action to stop the virus ' spread . 
And indeed , there was a major shift on January 20 , when Chinese President Xi Jinping commented publicly for the first time on the virus , and ordered " resolute efforts " to control the outbreak . 
Speaking alongside Xi in Beijing a week later , World Health Organization ( WHO ) director Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus praised the " seriousness with which China is taking this outbreak , " and thanked Beijing for its " transparency . " 
New revelation : Over the weekend , however , a transcript of an internal Communist Party speech appeared to throw doubt on this narrative , revealing Xi knew about and was directing the response to the virus on January 7 -- almost two weeks before he commented on it publicly . 
Why this matters : The revelation raises major questions about whether it was the central government , not authorities in Hubei , who dithered on their response , allowing the virus to spread through the country and eventually the world . 
It also underlines the difficulty in maintaining Xi 's image -- carefully cultivated by state media -- as an almost omniscient ruler who oversees , and is aware of everything that is happening in the country . 
With criticism growing of the failure to contain the coronavirus , both at home and abroad , Beijing was faced with either choosing to admit that Xi was ignorant of the true nature of the crisis until almost a month into it , or that he was aware of it and involved in the response . 
By choosing the latter option , however , no matter how much blame can be placed onto provincial officials for failing to " implement " Xi 's instructions , the government is admitting that ultimate responsibility for the outbreak lies with the man at the center . 
Read more here : 
