Many European countries are reporting record rises in Covid 19 infections , which overtake what they saw during their spring peaks , as the second wave of the pandemic engulfs the continent . 
The situation has turned political in some nations , with calls growing for the resignation of the Czech Republic 's health minister , after he was photographed flouting Covid 19 rules . 
Here 's more : Germany : It recorded more than 11,000 new infections for the second day in a row , which the head of the country ’s disease and control agency described as " very serious . " 
Germany 's health minister said a vaccine could be available for the German population at the start of 2021 . 
The German government has also issued travel warnings for popular ski resorts in countries including Italy , Austria , Switzerland and Poland . 
Czech Republic : Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babiš called on Health Minister Roman Prymula to resign on Friday , after Prymula was photographed leaving a restaurant in Prague without a mask this week -- days after he announced a strict lockdown and pleaded with people to stay home . 
Sweden : " It ’s time for partying in nightclubs to stop , " Prime Minister Stefan Lofven said Thursday as he announced restrictions on nightclubs , limiting capacity to 50 people . 
The tightening of these restrictions -- still lenient compared with other European countries where nightlife has all but ceased -- comes as the country sees a spike in coronavirus infections . 
Ukraine : Ukraine reported 7,517 new Covid 19 cases on Friday , hitting a new daily high since the start of the pandemic . 
It also registered 121 coronavirus related deaths . 
Poland : It reported 13,632 new Covid 19 cases on Friday , the country ’s highest number since the pandemic began . 
On Saturday , new restrictions come into force , which includes the closure of restaurants except for takeaway and delivery , a five person rule for outdoor meetings , and restrictions on the movement of people over the age of 70 . 
Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said on Twitter that more than 10,000 of the country 's 18,000 hospital beds are currently occupied . 
Slovakia : Residents will not be allowed to leave their homes from Saturday unless they have a negative coronavirus test or are carrying out an exempted activity . 
Slovakia went into an official state of emergency on October 1 when its infection rates started going up . 
The country reported a record high number of new infections on Thursday of 2,581 . 
Russia : The country reported 17,340 new cases of coronavirus on Friday , around 1,000 cases more compared to the previous record daily increase reported on October 20 . 
