Canada continues to battle a second wave of Covid 19 as total cases top 200,000 and deaths near the grim milestone of 10,000 victims since the pandemic began . 
Alarmingly , public health officials say hospitalizations continue to rise as the positivity rate nationally during the last week is now above 3 % , and higher than that in hotspots like Montreal and Toronto . 
While schools remain open for in person learning throughout most of the country , there have been targeted restrictions in many urban centers with restaurant and bar closures , limits on social gatherings and closure of gyms and theaters . 
While new , daily cases have plateaued and the growth rate of new cases has stabilized , Canadian hospitals are seeing more patients who are critically ill . 
" The number of people experiencing severe illness is also increasing . 
Over the past 7 days there were on average over 950 individuals with COVID 19 being treated in Canadian hospitals including close to 200 in critical care and an average of 22 deaths reported each day , " said Dr . Theresa Tam , chief public health officer of Canada during a press conference in Ottawa . 
Trudeau was asked about Halloween Tuesday as several cities in Ontario , including Toronto and Ottawa , recommended against trick or treating on Halloween night saying community transmission of the virus was too high . 
Trudeau confirmed his three children will be following local public health guidelines and would not be trick or treating in Ottawa on Halloween night . 
The issue of Halloween divides even doctors with some saying trick or treating is a relatively low risk activity given it is outside . 
A Toronto infectious disease specialist tweeted that the ban on trick or treating did not " sit right . " 
" The goal should be to find ways to do things safely rather than cancel . 
Halloween should not be too tough to do safely : Outside , wearing masks , restricted to family units , distant from others - is about as low risk as it gets , " tweeted Dr . Isaac Bogoch with the University of Toronto . 
Some editorials were scathing with The Globe and Mail ’s medical specialist Andre Picard writing , " We ’ve spent months being spooked by a virus . 
It ’s time for a little pushback , " he says in an opinion piece , adding , " This is masked , distanced candy collecting . 
To suggest that is dangerous is downright diabolical . " 
There is little indication local authorities will relent before Halloween although officials said that they were relying on individual compliance and they were not planning any enforcement initiatives . 
