Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez has taken to newspapers across Europe to throw down a gauntlet to the European Union : " Either we rise to this challenge or we will fail as a union . " 
Writing in 10 major newspapers , including the Guardian , El País , Le Monde , La Repubblica and Frankfurter Allegemeine Zeitung , Sanchez says : " We have reached a critical juncture at which even the most fervently pro European countries and governments , as is Spain ’s case , need real proof of commitment . " 
Sanchez ’ remarks come amid a bitter stand off between several EU states – including Spain , Italy , France and Portugal on the one hand and the Netherlands and Germany on the other – over the financing of the European recovery once the coronavirus pandemic recedes . 
Sanchez describes the virus as " an invisible enemy that is putting the future of the European project to the test . " 
" Without solidarity there can be no cohesion , without cohesion there will be disaffection and the credibility of the European project will be severely damaged , " he writes . 
Sanchez says that current plans , such as the European Central Bank ’s bond buying program are not enough . 
Europe , he says , " must build a wartime economy and promote European resistance , reconstruction and recovery , " essentially a " new Marshall plan and which will require the backing of all of the EU ’s common institutions . " 
Two weeks ago , a long video conference among EU leaders ended acrimoniously , with Spain and Italy decrying the refusal of other governments to contemplate a Europe wide " coronabond . " 
France , Italy and Spain and six other euro area governments had called for the issuance of joint European debt to finance the fight against coronavirus , telling European Council president Charles Michel that the EU needed " to work on a common debt instrument issued by a European institution to raise funds on the market on the same basis and to the benefits of all member states . " 
Sanchez returned to the theme Sunday – saying European solidarity " has to ensure that there are no gaps between north and south , that we leave no one behind . " 
