Health care workers in India need to be protected by a nationwide law after a spate of violence against doctors and nurses , the Indian Medical Association ( IMA ) said on Monday . 
The group issued a statement saying that " doctors have been abused , beaten up , denied entry and residence . " 
" IMA has maintained utmost restraint and patience in spite of extreme provocations , " the statement read . 
" We demand a special central law against violence on doctors , nurses , health care workers and hospitals , " added the statement . 
The IMA has asked health care workers across the nation to light a candle as a form of protest on Wednesday . 
If the government does not formulate a central law on violence against health care workers , the IMA has called for a " black day " to be observed on Thursday where doctors will work with black badges . 
Further decisions will be taken if the government still does not act , according to the statement issued by IMA . 
Doctors in India continue to face several challenges with the coronavirus pandemic . 
Lack of equipment , cases of doctors being attacked , and lack of adequate living facilities for doctors remain a problem according to doctors associations across the country . 
" Earlier there was definitely a lack of personal protective equipment ( PPE ) , but now even though they are available the standard of quality is low , " said Adarsh Singh , President of the Resident Doctors Association at All India Institute of Medical Science . 
Over 100 healthcare workers have tested positive in Delhi alone , according to Singh . 
Delhi with 2,081 positive cases of coronavirus , including 47 deaths , has the second highest number of cases in the country , according to the Indian Ministry of Health . 
" With cases on the rise , there needs to be capacity building . 
Hospitals are not equipped to handle cases if the numbers continue to rise at the current rate and doctors are already working round the clock , " Singh added . 
Maharashtra has the highest number of cases in the country with 4,666 positive cases of coronavirus including 232 deaths , according to the Indian Ministry of Health . 
" Many doctors have tested positive for the virus already and those of us working on the frontlines at government hospitals live in hostels where effective social distancing is not possible , " a Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors ( MARD ) spokesperson said . 
At least 100 nurses have tested positive in Mumbai , according to Akash Pillai , general secretary of the Maharashtra United Nurses Association . 
The Mumbai municipal corporation has begun providing hotel accommodation for doctors , especially those who live with their families , so that they do not have to go home . 
However , this provision is much less than is required , according to the MARD spokesperson . 
" All we want is adequate PPE to protect health care workers , [ assurance ] that we will be safe in discharging our duties and wo not be attacked , and proper living facilities , " Singh said . 
According to the Indian Ministry of Health , India currently has 18,601 confirmed cases of coronavirus including 590 deaths . 
