Only a week ago , Hong Kong seemed like a model for how to contain the novel coronavirus , with a relatively small number of cases despite months of being on the front lines of the outbreak . 
That was in large part thanks to action taken early on , while cases were spreading across mainland China , to implement measures that are now familiar throughout the world : virus mapping , social distancing , intensive hand washing , and wearing masks and other protective clothing . 
Hong Kong was proof that these measures worked , with the city of 7.5 million only reporting some 150 cases at the start of March , even as the number of infections spiked in other East Asian territories like South Korea and Japan , and spread rapidly across Europe and North America . 
Increase in cases : Now , however , Hong Kong is providing a very different object lesson -- what happens when you let your guard down too soon . 
The number of confirmed cases has almost doubled in the past week , with many imported from overseas , as Hong Kong residents who had left -- either to work or study abroad , or to seek safety when the city seemed destined for a major outbreak earlier this year -- return , bringing the virus back with them . 
This is a pattern playing out across parts of Asia -- mainland China , Singapore , Taiwan -- that were among the first to tackle the outbreak . 
All are now introducing new measures as a renewed wave of cases begins to crest . 
In it for the long haul : Compared to major cities in the West , like London or New York , residents in Hong Kong can sometimes feel as if they 're living in the future . 
Many of the measures enacted in the Asian metropolis back in February are now being rolled out in European and American cities . 
But this latest lesson may be a bitter pill to swallow , as it indicates that quarantines and social distancing must continue well beyond the initial wave of cases , if another round of infections is to be avoided . 
For those just going into lockdown , that could mean they 're in for the long haul . 
Read the full story here . 
