The US Food and Drug Administration is considering new authorization rules for a Covid 19 vaccine , according to three sources familiar with the situation -- and calculations show these rules would push an authorization beyond Election Day . 
That would dash the hopes of President Donald Trump , who has said repeatedly the vaccine could be ready by November 3 . 
The sources described two different scenarios that the FDA is assessing before a pharmacy company can be given an emergency use authorization ( EUA ) for its vaccine . 
That source said the FDA is expected to tell vaccine makers that they need to wait two months after giving all their study participants the second doses of the vaccine until they can apply for an EUA . 
Pfizer and Moderna , the two companies that began Phase 3 clinical trial for coronavirus vaccines in the US in July , have given second doses to fewer than half of their participants . 
There ’s a second scenario that might happen instead : A second source , a senior administration official , said the agency is expected to require that companies wait 60 days after giving half their trial participants their second dose before they can secure an EUA . 
The move is designed to monitor the safety of the vaccine , even if the trial has already determined the vaccine ’s efficacy . 
Under that rule , the two companies still would not get an EUA by Election Day , since they have not yet given second doses to half their volunteers . 
A third source said the FDA was considering making the 50 % requirement , but that it was still in the discussion stage . 
Vaccine trials : Pfizer plans to enroll 44,000 volunteers in its clinical trial , and as of Monday it had given second doses to 19,210 participants . 
Moderna plans to enroll 33,000 volunteers in its clinical trial , and as of Friday , it had given second doses to 11,879 participants . 
Both companies expect an initial readout of efficacy data , called an interim analysis , to occur in the coming weeks . 
A third clinical trial by Astra Zeneca is currently paused in the United States , after a participant in the UK developed a neurological condition . 
News that the agency is expected to issue the new guidance to Covid 19 vaccine developers was first reported by the Washington Post on Tuesday . 
