South Korea is easing social distancing measures to Level 1 , the lowest level , after discussions with health experts and local government officials , according to Health Minister Park Neung hoo . 
Here 's what the new rules mean : Restrictions on the number of people allowed in indoor and outdoor locations will be lifted but places like bars and clubs will only allow one person per 4 square meters ( 43 square feet ) of capacity , Park said . 
Strong restrictions will still apply to high risk facilities and some parts of the greater Seoul area , where infections remain high , Park said . 
A mandatory face mask rule will apply to crowded facilities , public transport , and protests . 
Starting November 13 , a fine of 100,000 Korean won ( $ 90 ) will be levied on those who violate the face mask rule . 
Facilities that fail to follow preventative measures will be subject to closure by the government and potential fines , Park added . 
Sports games will allow spectators at 30 % of capacity and national parks will allow half capacity . 
For the greater Seoul area , the government recommends not more than 50 people gather for indoor events , and not more than 100 outdoors . 
Additionally , 1 meter ( 3 feet ) distance must be enforced between tables for restaurants and cafes . 
Churches can hold services at 30 % capacity but small gatherings or having meals together are not allowed , Park said . 
Schools will operate at two thirds capacity for in person learning beginning October 19 , South Korean Education Minister Yoo Eun hae said in a news release on Sunday . 
However , this can be adjusted depending on the condition of the region or school . 
New cases : South Korea recorded 97 new coronavirus infections Sunday , 68 of which were locally transmitted , according to a news release from the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency ( KDCA ) on Monday . 
The total number of confirmed cases for the country is 24,703 and the death toll is 433 as one new fatality was added from the previous day , according to KDCA . 
