The United States has experienced high coronavirus death rates during the pandemic , even when compared to other countries with high Covid 19 mortality , according to a study published Monday in the medical journal JAMA . 
Alyssa Bilinski , a Ph D candidate at Harvard University , and Dr . Ezekiel Emanuel , vice provost of global initiatives and professor at the University of Pennsylvania , compared US coronavirus death rates through September 19 to those of 18 other countries with varying pandemic responses . 
They found that after May 10 , the US had more deaths per 100,000 people than other high mortality countries included in the comparison . 
Bilinski and Emanuel categorized South Korea , Japan and Australia as low mortality countries , with fewer than 5 coronavirus deaths per 100,000 people . 
If the US had comparable death rates to Australia since the beginning of the pandemic , it would have had 187,661 fewer deaths , the study shows . 
Moderate mortality countries , with fewer than 5 to 25 deaths per 100,000 people , included Norway , Finland , Austria , Denmark , Germany , Israel , Switzerland and Canada . 
Bilinski and Emanuel note that if the US had comparable death rates to Canada since the beginning of the pandemic , it would have had 117,622 fewer deaths . 
High mortality countries , with deaths greater than 25 per 100,000 people , included the United States , the Netherlands , France , Sweden , Italy , the United Kingdom , Spain and Belgium . 
The US was faring better than some high mortality countries , but only in the early stage of the pandemic . 
The comparison shows that if the US had comparable death rates to France beginning May 10 , it would have had 96,763 fewer deaths . 
Note on the study 's findings : One limitation of the study included difference in mortality risk among countries . 
Bilinski and Emanuel suggest that multiple factors may have contributed to US death rates during the pandemic , including weak public health infrastructure and inconsistent pandemic response in the US . 
