Several countries in the Middle East have moved to reimpose restrictions and lockdown measures ahead of the upcoming Eid al Adha holiday , as reported coronavirus cases increase in some nations , health ministries and state media have said . 
Morocco has banned travel to and from several cities on Sunday , including major cities like Casablanca , Tangier and Marrakech , a joint statement by the Ministries of Interior and Health said according to state run Agence Marocaine De Presse ( MAP ) . 
The country recorded 633 cases on Sunday , bringing the total number of recorded cases over 20,000 and 313 deaths In Algeria , the government decided to ban the use of private vehicles in 29 provinces while extending curfew for another 15 days , starting Tuesday , Radio Algerie said on their website quoting the Prime Minister . 
Algeria has been recording more than 500 cases daily since mid July , bringing the total number to over 27,000 with 1,155 deaths , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
Last week , the Oman government announced that the country will go into a " complete lockdown of all governorates of the Sultanate " from July 25 until August 8 , after a rise in the number of Covid 19 cases , according to Oman 's News Agency . 
Oman has one of the highest number of cases per 100,000 people , according to data collected from Johns Hopkins . 
In Lebanon , a decision to reimpose lockdown has not been taken yet , however the Lebanese minister of Public health Hamad Hassan said on Monday that he recommends " a total lockdown of the country for two weeks , except for the airport " according to the Lebanese National News Agency ( NNA ) . 
Iraq will also impose a 10 day curfew starting on Eid al Adha and implement a series of measures to contain the coronavirus outbreak in Iraq , the country ’s Supreme Committee for Health and National Safety , headed by Prime Minister Mustafa al Kadhimi , announced Sunday . 
In addition to an increase in cases , countries are moving to reimpose restrictions in anticipation of Muslims celebrating the upcoming holiday Eid al Adha , which is expected to start Thursday . 
The celebrations include prayers , family visits and intercity travels . 
