Amtrak is warning of another round of job cuts as it pares back train service amid a stubbornly slow recovery and said it does not plan to ask Congress for enough money to preserve jobs . 
An executive at the rail network wrote to employees that it plans to run many of the long distance routes less frequently , saving the rail network $ 150 million in costs . 
A copy of the message was obtained by CNN . 
Executive Vice President Roger Harris did not quantify the job losses , but said the company " will work quickly to determine what staffing reductions or furloughs will occur . " 
The passenger railroad service does not plan to ask Congress for additional funds to save those jobs , nor the 20 % company wide furloughs announced in May , spokesperson Kimberly Woods told CNN on Tuesday . 
Amtrak has requested more than $ 3.5 billion from Congress this year , including a special $ 1.47 billion request to help with coronavirus related costs and losses . 
Woods said Amtrak is " in the planning phase " and has not determined if the long distance job cuts will be in addition to the 20 % reductions . 
In the memo , Harris wrote : " Congress is not going to support us indefinitely to run mostly empty trains . 
We need to demonstrate that we are using our resources efficiently and responsibly . " 
Amtrak ’s 15 long distance routes stretch as long as the 2,400 mile California Zephyr line , running from Chicago to the San Francisco area . 
It used to run that route – and one other – daily , but plans to reduce service on most lines to three times weekly . 
" As the economy begins to reopen , demand remains down more than 70 % , " Woods told CNN . 
" We forecast a slow recovery and expect systemwide ridership in FY21 to be half of what it was in 2019 . " 
Employee unions call for Congress ' help : The Amtrak employee unions , however , are asking Congress to chip in to save those jobs . 
A coalition of 14 unions wrote to Congress on Friday requesting $ 350 million for Amtrak to prevent the layoffs . 
They warned the rail line will " use the pandemic as an excuse to permanently and artificially cut its workforce , eliminate or reduce routes and on board or other customer services , or replace furloughed Amtrak employees with outsourced contractors . " 
Amtrak recently turned 49 and said before the pandemic , it was on track for its first profitable year . 
