If you 're just joining us , here are the latest developments since our last catch up . 
Concern in Britain : UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson remains in intensive care with coronavirus and has been treated with oxygen , said Michael Gove , Minister for the Cabinet Office . 
He is not on a ventilator , according to Gove . 
US braces for worst : State and health officials have warned that this week may be the hardest yet , and that the coming weeks will be crucial in stemming the virus ' spread . 
The situation is most dire in New York , where at least 4,758 people have died , according to the latest data . 
Funeral homes have been overwhelmed because of increased demand . 
France outbreak worsens : France has not yet reached the peak of its coronavirus outbreak , according to health minister Olivier Veran , who said " we are still in a worsening phase of the epidemic . " 
Deaths have spiked dramatically in the country -- 833 people died from the virus within 24 hours , Veran said yesterday . 
Milestone in China : The country where the pandemic began recorded no new deaths yesterday for the first time since January . 
There were also no locally transmitted infections found yesterday ; all new cases were imported from abroad . 
And tomorrow , the epicenter city of Wuhan will finally lift its lockdown after three months . 
India relaxes drug export : India has partially lifted export restrictions on the drug hydroxychloroquine , after imposing a blanket export ban on the drug on Saturday -- just as President Donald Trump requested more to be released to the US . 
Doctors attacked : Meanwhile , frontline doctors in India are being attacked and harassed by their communities , due to fears that they may be infected after working with coronavirus patients . 
New Zealand controversy : The health minister was demoted and called himself " an idiot " after breaking nationwide lockdown rules by driving to the beach with his family . 
Fear in Japan : The country recorded another 252 cases yesterday , and the Prime Minister is expected to declare a state of emergency today . 
Doctors warn that there is not enough testing , and many say the emergency declaration may be coming too late . 
