Belgians are being asked to eat an extra portion of frites each week during the coronavirus pandemic in a bid to help Belgian potato producers , who risk destroying surplus stock due a slump in demand caused by restaurant closures . 
The campaign is being led by Belgapom , the country 's association of potato producers . 
Its director , Romain Cools , told CNN that he hopes that by encouraging Belgians to eat more frites at home it will , " enable our processors to avoid food waste by processing more potatoes and store them in our freezers -- which are nearly full now . " 
Belgians typically eat frites once a week , but mainly outside their homes in friteries or restaurants . 
Coors said this is " contrary to other countries like the United States , where fries are often a side dish for their meals . " 
Belgian potato farmers are facing a surplus of 750,000 tons of potatoes this year that risk being destroyed because of the measures in place to stop the spread of Covid 19 , according to the latest Belgapom data . 
" By eating an extra portion during this crisis they could collaborate with farmers and the industry to avoid food losses , " added Cools . 
World 's largest frozen fries exporter : With almost all food outlets closed in the country and across Europe , normal consumption patterns have been disrupted which Belgapom estimates has caused a worldwide decrease in the consumption of fries by 40 % since the beginning of the pandemic . 
This has huge implications on the Belgian potato growers who are the world ’s largest exporter of frozen fries -- with the majority of their products going to caterers and professional kitchens in 160 countries around the world . 
According to Belgapom ’s figures , 2.3 million tons of frozen french fries were supplied globally by Belgian producers in 2019 . 
To help citizens use up the extra potatoes , the regional agriculture agency of Wallonia , Apaq W and VLAM are promoting local and seasonal recipes through dedicated websites to use up excess Belgian potatoes and encouraging people to post their dishes on social media . 
