The US economy could benefit if the nation were to " lock down really hard " for four to six weeks , a top Federal Reserve official said on Sunday , adding that Congress can well afford large sums for coronavirus relief efforts . 
The economy , which in the second quarter suffered its biggest blow since the Great Depression , would be able to mount a robust recovery , but only if the virus were brought under control , Neel Kashkari , president of the Minneapolis Federal Reserve Bank , told CBS ’ " Face the Nation . " 
" If we do not do that and we just have this raging virus spreading throughout the country with flare ups and local lockdowns for the next year or two , which is entirely possible , we ’re going to see many , many more business bankruptcies , " Kashkari said . 
" That ’s going to be a much slower recovery for all of us . " 
He said Congress was positioned to spend big on coronavirus relief efforts because the nation ’s budget gap can be financed without relying on foreign borrowing , given how much Americans are saving . 
" Those of us who are fortunate enough to still have our jobs , we ’re saving a lot more money because we ’re not going to restaurants or movie theaters or vacations , " Kashkari said . 
" That actually means that we have a lot more resources as a country to support those who have been laid off , " he said . 
The Democratic led US House of Representatives approved a $ 3tn relief bill in May , while Senate Republicans , many of whom have expressed concerns about mounting debt , countered by proposing a $ 1tn aid package last week . 
Efforts to craft a compromise appear stalled . 
In an interview with ABC ’s " This Week " on Sunday , Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said president Donald Trump would spend what was needed , but that the deficit was a factor . 
" There ’s obviously a need to support workers and support the economy , " he said . 
" On the other hand , we have to be careful about not piling on enormous amount of debts for future generations . " 
