Texas Gov . 
Greg Abbott announced a new record high for daily coronavirus cases in the Lone Star State . 
He attributed the increase in positive cases to an assisted living facility in Collin County near Dallas , as well the delayed reporting of numbers from Hays County near Austin . 
Abbott said the state will see an increase of 2,622 cases on Tuesday , surpassing the previous record high of 2,504 on June 10 . 
And while the hospitalization rate has been increasing , Abbott expressed confidence in the state 's capacity , with 14,933 beds available . 
The number of hospitalized coronavirus patients has been above 2,000 for the past week , with a record high of 2,518 reported on Tuesday . 
" Even though there are more people hospitalized , we still remain at the lowest threat level to our hospital capacity , " he said . 
Still , the governor urged Texans to be diligent about wearing masks , washing hands , and practicing social distance measures . 
The governor also reported that some counties are seeing a sharp increase in positive tests among people under the age 30 , suggesting that could be a result of looser restrictions at bars and Memorial Day gatherings . 
Abbott said the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission warned this week that bars and restaurants must adhere to state safety protocols or face liquor license suspensions . 
" There have been pictures that I have seen and others have seen about these bar type settings where it clearly the standards are not being followed . 
I think enforcement 's by TABC should bring these types of settings more into line , " he said . 
Abbott also said the increase in positive tests may start to decline now that Texas has tested " well over a majority " of jails and prisons , which he said have returned the highest positivity rate in the state . 
" So now that we have gotten through most of those types of congregate settings , there is reason to believe that those testing positive — the number of those testing positive — should begin to decline a little bit , " he said . 
