Vice President Mike Pence just touched down in Tampa , Florida . 
He 'll soon have a coronavirus briefing with the state 's governor , Ron De Santis , at the University of South Florida . 
Both leaders were wearing masks when they greeted each other on the airport tarmac . 
Pence is joined on the trip by Dr . Deborah Birx , a White House coronavirus task force official , Alex Azar , Health and Human Services Secretary , and Dr . Stephen Hahn , the head of the Food and Drug Administration — all of whom were seen wearing masks at the airport . 
The group exchanged pleasantries with Gov . 
De Santis but did not shake hands or elbow bump . 
According to the pool , no one on the flight wore face masks except for the press and the flight attendants . 
Pence 's trip comes as the state reported its highest single day total of new coronavirus cases , with more than 10,000 new cases . 
That broke the previous record of more than 9,500 new cases in a single day , which was reported on Saturday . 
Here 's what else we know about coronavirus in the state : No mask mandate : De Santis has not issued a statewide requirement for people to wear masks in public , although many cities and counties have issued their own mask orders . 
Both the city of Tampa , which Pence is visiting today , and Hillsborough County , which Tampa sits in , require people to wear masks when visiting businesses that are open to the public . 
Where reopening stands : While the state suspended on premise alcohol consumption in bars across Florida , the governor has said the state will not revert to stricter measures to curb the outbreak . 
The latest from Miami : Miami Dade Mayor Carlos Giménez said this week restaurants in the county will close nightly at midnight . 
Giménez said that not complying with the order is a second degree misdemeanor and violators can be fined and spend up to 180 days in jail . 
Additionally , all people in Miami Dade will be required to wear a mask or other facial covering when in public . 
