Medical grade masks such as N95 respirators may not fit female and Asian health care workers as well as their male , Caucasian counterparts , researchers in Australia reported Tuesday . 
It ’s an especially important question because of the coronavirus pandemic and the researchers recommend more consistent testing of masks for health care workers , rather than having each worker check the fit . 
Britta von Ungern Sternberg from the Perth Children 's Hospital and colleagues reviewed data and studies going back to 2003 on how well filtering facepiece respirators fit , and found the masks passed fit tests just 85 % of the time for women , compared to 95 % of the time for men . 
They also found these rates were lower among Asians , ( 84 % ) , than Caucasians , ( 90 % ) . 
Fit test pass rates were particularly low in Asian females , with an average fit pass rate of 60 % , they reported in the journal Anaesthesia . 
How well a mask fits is more important than the how well the material it is made of filters the air , the researchers said . 
Health care workers are more likely than other people to become infected with coronavirus , the team noted . 
Inadequate personal protective equipment ( PPE ) is sometimes to blame , and poorly fitting masks and respirators can be a factor . 
The US National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health standards requires N95 masks used in the US to meet a fit of 95 % , defined by a fit test panel . 
The team notes that the dimensions of that test panel come from a group in which women and Asian people are underrepresented . 
The researchers also compared mask " fit checks , " when a health care worker checks their own mask to make sure it ’s fitting properly , to " fit tests , " which are more involved and costly but yield a more accurate assessment . 
Health care workers are supposed to check their masks every time they are used , but the researchers do not recommend replacing fit tests with fit checks . 
Qualitative fit testing involves releasing sprays that test bitter or sweet test agents . 
If the mask wearer cannot taste the bitter or sweet test agents , the mask is determined to fit . 
Quantitative fit testing involves actually measuring the concentration of substances inside and outside the mask to determine how well the mask fits and filters particles . 
