The US Food and Drug Administration gave emergency use approval to convalescent plasma as a treatment for coronavirus Sunday , but some experts say there is not a lot of solid data to support its use . 
Trump administration officials cited a Mayo Clinic led study that showed a 35 % improvement in survival among people given the highest doses of the treatment early on in their illness compared to those who were treated later . 
Reiner pointed out this is not the same as a randomized placebo controlled clinical trial , medicine 's gold standard , which can demonstrate whether the treatment really works better than not treating people . 
" While the data to date show some positive signals that convalescent plasma can be helpful in treating individuals with COVID 19 , especially if given early in the trajectory of disease , we lack the randomized controlled trial data we need to better understand its utility in COVID 19 treatment , " said Dr . Thomas File , president of the Infectious Diseases Society of America . 
" For this reason , IDSA supports the continued collection of data in randomized clinical trials to better understand the benefits of convalescent plasma treatment before authorizing its wider use in patients with COVID 19 . " 
Art Caplan , founding head of the Division of Medical Ethics at NYU School of Medicine , told CNN he did not think the evidence was sufficient for an emergency use authorization . 
At a White House briefing Sunday night , President Trump and Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar urged coronavirus survivors to donate plasma . 
Caplan said he 's worried about whether there 's a large enough supply of convalescent plasma , which relies on donations from Covid 19 survivors . 
Under an emergency use authorization , doctors will be more likely to give convalescent plasma without tracking data , so it will then be difficult to determine which donors have the most effective plasma , and which patients are the best candidates to receive it . 
