A hurried evacuation of a half million Texas and Louisiana residents ahead of Hurricane Laura has clogged highways , while Covid 19 precautions slowed public transportation for evacuees who needed it and complicated temporary housing arrangements . 
The storm strengthened and is forecast to bring 145 mile ( 233km ) per hour winds to the Texas/Louisiana border near midnight on Wednesday . 
Warnings for an " unsurvivable storm surge " and " catastrophic damage " led officials in each state to call for residents to flee inland . 
Local officials advised residents with personal vehicles to take them . 
For those boarding buses out of the area temperature checks were required . 
Evacuees were being assigned to far flung hotels to avoid large groups at shelters . 
In Galveston County , Texas , which ordered a mandatory evacuation of low lying areas on Tuesday , buses brought residents inland , but capped the number on each at 15 to 20 people because of the pandemic , said county official Zach Davidson . 
Officials also arranged for ambulances for those diagnosed with Covid 19 . 
" We have stressed to people , when you ’re building your hurricane kit , put in a mask , hand sanitiser , gloves , " he said . 
Texas state officials were directing those fleeing the storm to hotels in Dallas and elsewhere after an Austin intake centre was overwhelmed with requests for housing overnight . 
Evacuee Veronica Carresco was carting a full complement of antiseptics on the way to Midland , Texas . 
" We ’re just being cautious . 
Masks , Lysol , hand sanitiser - we ’re doing all of it , " she said . 
Large scale evacuations could increase Covid 19 cases in evacuees ’ origin and destination counties , according to a study by Columbia University and the Union of Concerned Scientists . 
It advised evacuees to be assigned to areas with low virus activity and encouraged them to follow social distancing guidelines and to wear masks and protective gear . 
Texas and Louisiana were both hot spots for the pandemic earlier this year , but new case trends have since declined . 
