As America effectively shuts down , failures over coronavirus testing kits and President Donald Trump 's disastrous bid to calm the markets are coming to symbolize a federal government that increasingly seems outmatched by the global pandemic . 
Shuttered sports leagues , darkened Broadway theaters , mass school closures , packed grocery stores , shrinking 401 ( k ) s amid a stock market meltdown , and emptying cities hint at social disruption perhaps not seen since World War II . 
How bad is the outbreak ? 
The administration 's public health experts have no idea how bad the US coronavirus outbreak will get , since bottlenecks in lab testing and faults with diagnosis kits mean they ca not know how many infections there really are . 
" We are flying blind , " warned Democratic Rep . 
Mike Quigley of Illinois , one of many lawmakers of both parties who emerged furious from a Capitol Hill briefing Thursday with government officials about the situation . 
A source inside the meeting told CNN that lawmakers were told that only 11,000 tests had been conducted , prompting many to ask why South Korea can manage to test 10,000 in a single day . 
Contradictions on testing The administration has been boasting for several weeks that it is sending millions of testing kits to states and local authorities . 
But those officials say long waits for kits and issues with the reagent used in diagnosis mean they are able to test only the most high risk patients . 
They are left in the dark about the true extent of the coronavirus ' spread through the community . 
But after his European travel ban announced in an Oval Office address on Wednesday night and mix ups in his speech over how much virus treatment will cost , Trump stuck to happy talk and falsehoods . 
The President 's comments contradicted his own government 's head of infectious disease , Dr . Anthony Fauci , who admitted on Thursday that protocols under which doctors request tests for patients were not working . 
" The system does not , is not really geared to what we need right now , " Fauci said . 
" It is a failing . 
Let 's admit it . " 
Read the full analysis here . 
