German researchers called symptom based screening to detect the novel coronavirus " ineffective " in a new analysis published Tuesday in the New England Journal of Medicine . 
The researchers assessed the screening process for 126 people evacuated to Germany from Wuhan , China . 
All 126 travelers , mostly German nationals , left Wuhan on February 1 and were screened for symptoms and clinical signs of infection before they were evacuated . 
Despite requiring travelers to undergo a multiple screenings once in Germany , two travelers were ultimately positive for the novel coronavirus . 
According to the researchers , " a symptom based screening process was ineffective in detecting " the virus . 
During the evacuation flight from Germany , 10 passengers were isolated : two because of contact with a confirmed coronavirus patient ; six exhibited symptoms ; and two passengers who had accompanied one of the six symptomatic travelers . 
Upon arrival , all 10 of these passengers were transferred to University Hospital Frankfurt and all tested negative for coronavirus . 
The remaining 116 passengers underwent another medical assessment and one passenger had an elevated temperature and cough . 
This patient ultimately tested negative for coronavirus . 
Of the remaining 115 patients , 114 consented to a throat swab to test for coronavirus . 
Of those 114 travelers , two tested positive for coronavirus . 
These two patients were isolated at a hospital . 
One patient had a faint rash and sore throat . 
According to the researchers , the two isolated patients were " well " and had no fever in the seven days after hospitalization . 
Aside from the ineffectiveness of the screening process , the authors found that the virus could potentially be spread by those who exhibited mild symptoms : " Shedding of potentially infectious virus may occur in persons who have no fever and no signs or only minor signs of infection . " 
Over 73,000 people around the world have been infected with the coronavirus , most of those cases in mainland China . 
There have been more than 1,800 deaths , including five people outside of mainland China . 
