China will designate medical workers who died of the novel coronavirus while working to combat the disease as " martyrs , " according to state media . 
The move comes as the government has faced criticism for not providing frontline medics with sufficient equipment or support as they struggle to contain the outbreak , particularly at the epicenter in Hubei province . 
As of February 11 , more than 3,000 medical workers were believed to have been infected with the virus , according to a study published this week by the Chinese Centers for Disease Control . 
First hospital head to die : On Tuesday morning , Wuhan ’s Health Commission announced that Liu Zhiming , director of the Wuchang hospital in Wuhan , had died from the virus . 
Liu was a neurosurgeon and is the first hospital director to die as a result of the coronavirus epidemic , which started in the city of Wuhan in late 2019 . 
Whistleblower 's death : One of the most prominent doctors to die of Covid 19 , the disease caused by the virus , was Li Wenliang , who had previously been reprimanded by police in Hubei for " spreading rumors " about the virus , after he tried to warn university classmates of a SARS like infection spreading in Wuhan . 
Li 's death sparked widespread outrage in China , fueling frustration with how the authorities have handled the outbreak . 
Revelations of doctors and nurses lacking equipment , being forced to shave their heads , and working almost until they drop , has fueled more frustration . 
National heroes : Chinese state media has repeatedly praised frontline workers for their heroics , highlighting their sacrifices and travails ⁠-- though without some of the criticism medics have voiced in overseas and private Chinese media . 
By declaring deceased doctors and nurses martyrs , the government is adding them to the pantheon of national and political heroes like Lei Feng , the quasi mythical Red Army soldier lauded by Mao Zedong . 
While no one doubts the very real heroism being practiced by Chinese doctors , it 's unclear if the veneration of them after they die will be enough to undo the anger caused by the government 's alleged failures to protect them in life . 
