All 4,066 members of the Sarang Jeil church in South Korea must be tested for coronavirus after a spike in cases was traced back to a religious service held by the group , according to an executive order by the acting Mayor of Seoul , Seo Jeong hyup . 
During an emergency briefing to reporters , Seo said that almost 2,000 members of the church 's congregation in Seoul -- who have been told to be tested -- are now instructed to self quarantine . 
Seo said the city will also work with the National Police Agency to " visit door to door , urging people to get tested . " 
Legal action against will also be taken against the church , run by Rev . 
Jun Kwang hoon , who Seo accused of violating infectious disease control laws . 
" Jun violated self quarantine and spread false information , purposely delaying congregations from getting tested , " Seo said . 
The Ministry of Health and Welfare 's said in a Twitter post that a complaint will be filed on Sunday against Rev . 
Jun Kwang hoon of Sarang Jeil Church in Seongbuk gu , Seoul for " violating self quarantine measures and obstructing the contact tracing investigation by omitting and concealing the list of investigation subjects . " 
South Korean President Moon Jae in posted a message on his Facebook Sunday warning of a firm response against individuals who flout the law and attend events that are the source of these mass infections . 
" By taking stern actions on illegal acts that undermine public well being and order , we will fulfill the government 's mission to protect the safety of the people first and firmly establish the rule of law . " 
Resurgence : Overall 279 new coronavirus cases were reported nationwide as of midnight Sunday , according to the South Korean Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , of which 267 cases were locally transmitted , and 146 cases were reported in Seoul . 
The South Korean government has waged one of the world 's most successful fights against Covid 19 . 
But a recent uptick of cases has led to social distancing measures being reintroduced to the Seoul area on Sunday . 
In total , there have been 15,318 confirmed Covid 19 cases in South Korea , and 305 patients have died , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
