Coronavirus causes a wide variety of symptoms in children , and targeted testing of kids may miss cases , a study published in an American Academy of Pediatrics journal finds . 
Dr . Rabia Agha and colleagues from Maimonides Children ’s General Hospital in Brooklyn studied 22 children with coronavirus who were admitted to the hospital over four weeks between March and April , when local transmission was widespread . 
They found that most of the patients did not have classic coronavirus symptoms , in contrast to what is seen in adults and some pediatric reports from China . 
The patients had a wide variety of symptoms and circumstances . 
Almost half of the 22 patients were less than a year old . 
Fifteen patients had a fever . 
Nine had respiratory symptoms . 
Two had seizures . 
Sixteen had no known contact with a Covid 19 patient , and two were entirely asymptomatic . 
None of the patients in the study died . 
The researchers initially followed guidelines from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , only testing patients with fever , cough and shortness of breath , those who had traveled to high risk countries and those who had close contact with a confirmed coronavirus case . 
As the rate of infections increased , they started testing all admitted patients , regardless of their symptoms . 
Of the four patients who required mechanical ventilation , only one did not have an underlying health condition – an otherwise healthy child who suffered a cardiac arrest . 
Three of the patients on ventilators qualified for compassionate use of the antiviral drug remdesivir and were eventually taken off the ventilators . 
Seven patients who were hospitalized for non Covid symptoms , including bacterial infections , appendicitis and inflamed muscles , tested positive for the virus . 
The researchers say it is unclear how large a role coronavirus played in their illness . 
The youngest patient in the study , who was 11 days old with a healthy mother , was likely infected by asymptomatic family members at home . 
The Maimonides team said infection rates at a particular time and region , rather than confirmed contact alone , should drive testing strategies , noting that 41 % of the patients they studied would have been overlooked because they did not meet the then recommended coronavirus testing criteria . 
" Testing of all hospitalized patients will not only identify cases early in the course of their admission process , but will also help prevent inadvertent exposure of other patients and health care workers , assist in cohorting infected patients and aid in conservation of personal protective equipment . " 
