Former President Barack Obama said he " absolutely " plans on getting a Covid 19 vaccine when it ’s available . 
Obama , in an interview with Sirius XM host Joe Madison scheduled to air Thursday , said if Dr . Anthony Fauci , the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , said a coronavirus is safe , he believes him . 
" I promise you that when it 's been made for people who are less at risk , I will be taking it , " he added . 
During the interview , Obama appeared to acknowledge the very real problem of vaccine hesitancy , which some health experts worry could cause minorities , who have been more adversely impacted by the coronavirus pandemic , to avoid getting a shot . 
" I understand you know historically , everything , dating back all the way to the Tuskegee experiments and so forth why the African American community , would have some skepticism . 
But the fact of the matter is , is that vaccines are why we do not have polio anymore , the reason why we do not have a whole bunch of kids dying from measles and smallpox and diseases that used to decimate entire populations and communities , " he said . 
Obama said he has no problem setting an example for getting a shot once one is available . 
" I may end up taking it on TV or having it filmed , just so that people know that I trust this science , and what I do not trust is getting Covid . " 
Some context : Previous studies have revealed that minority communities have higher death rates from Covid 19 , are more exposed , and the most vulnerable in part because of pre existing conditions . 
Obama also said in addition to promising vaccines , another reason to be hopeful is the incoming President elect Joe Biden and Vice President elect Kamala Harris . 
" In terms of Covid now , obviously at the end of the day , one of the great things about having Joe Biden and Kamala Harris back in charge on January 20th , is they will also then put scientists and medical experts in charge , " he said . 
