Meanwhile , North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has warned party officials there would be " serious consequences " of failing to prevent an outbreak of coronavirus in that country . 
More from AFP : The impoverished nation , with a weak and ill equipped healthcare system , has closed its borders to prevent the spread of the disease into its territory . 
Kim told a meeting of the ruling Workers ’ Party of Korea that the fight against the virus was a " crucial state affair for the defence of the people " that required maximum discipline , according to the official Korean Central News Agency ( KCNA ) . 
" In case the infectious disease spreading beyond control finds its way into our country , it will entail serious consequences , " KCNA quoted Kim as saying . 
Two senior officials - party vice chairmen Ri Man Gon and Pak Thae Dok - were sacked , and a party unit disbanded for corruption , the report said , indicating that they may have been involved in graft linked with the anti epidemic measures . 
" No special cases must be allowed , " he added , and ordered officials to " seal off all the channels and space through which the infectious disease may find its way " . 
Pyongyang has not reported a single case of COVID 19 , which has killed more than 2,800 people and infected over 84,000 people in dozens of countries since it emerged in neighbouring China . 
North Korea has banned tourists , suspended international trains and flights and placed hundreds of foreigners in quarantine to prevent an outbreak . 
It has also reportedly postponed the new school term . 
With loudspeakers blaring hygiene messages , ambassadors locked in their compounds , and state media demanding " absolute obedience " , North Korea ’s anti coronavirus measures have been described as " unprecedented " by diplomats . 
South Korea , meanwhile , is battling a major outbreak of the virus with more than 2,300 cases - the highest number outside mainland China . 
Germany ’s ambassador to the United Nations has said the Security Council would adopt humanitarian exemptions to the sanctions imposed on Pyongyang over its weapons programmes , and allow the export of equipment to help North Korea fight the coronavirus . 
But " the problem is that right now the North Koreans closed the borders , " Christoph Heusgen said Thursday after a closed door Security Council meeting about the reclusive state . 
The members of the Security Council called on North Korea " to allow this equipment in . 
So the population can be protected , " he added , without elaborating on the type of equipment . 
