In a letter sent Friday to top US health officials , Rep . 
Lloyd Doggett , a Democrat from Texas and chair of the Ways and Means Health Subcommittee , expressed his concerns regarding the safety , effectiveness , transparency and affordability of Regeneron ’s antibody treatment . 
The letter , addressed to US Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Dr . Stephen Hahn , US Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar , US Department of Defense Secretary Mark Esper and Operation Warp Speed Chief Adviser Moncef Slaoui , Doggett explained the need for scientifically proven and independently reviewed emergency use authorizations ( EUAs ) and regulatory approvals . 
The congressman ’s letter , shared exclusively with CNN , comes after President Trump posted a video to his Twitter account on Wednesday saying the treatment ’s emergency use authorization is " all set . " 
Also on Wednesday , Regeneron applied to the FDA for an EUA for its Covid 19 antibody therapy . 
Doggett also stated that the President has reportedly spoken directly with Hahn to urge immediate authorization , adding : " It is imperative that political pressure not lead to premature authorization . " 
The letter notes American taxpayers have invested more than $ 500 million in the treatment , which went to research , development and manufacturing operations . 
Doggett submitted written questions concerning the EUA process , manufacturing , distribution and pricing for the health officials to address . 
Doggett requested a commitment to publicly release all clinical trial data , safety and efficacy data , and any accompanying analysis at least a week prior to any authorization or approval ; a commitment to providing unredacted manufacturing agreements between the federal government or subcontractors and Regeneron ; and unredacted research and development funding agreements between the federal government or its subcontractors and Regeneron . 
" [ American taxpayers ] have assumed all of the risk in this endeavor , and in return , taxpayers should receive a safe , effective , and affordable product , " Doggett said . 
