There has been at least 3,965,863 cases of coronavirus around the world , and approximately 275,527 deaths globally , according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University . 
If you 're just tuning in , here are some of the top stories so far today . 
Three children dead in New York : New York . 
Governor Andrew Cuomo said the state is working with the CDC to try to figure out why these kids tested positive for Covid 19 , but had different symptoms . 
Remdesivir : The Department of Health and Human Services announced Saturday it had shipped 260 cases of the experimental antiviral drug remdesivir to states hardest hit by Covid 19 , including Illinois , New Jersey and Michigan . 
Antigen testing : The US Food and Drug Administration has granted the first emergency use authorization for an antigen test for the coronavirus . 
This is important because antigen tests look for pieces of a virus . 
That differs from most coronavirus tests , which look for the virus ' genetic material and require a number of chemicals to operate , many of which are in short supply . 
New sensors : The US Army is asking technology companies to develop wearable sensors to detect early symptoms of coronavirus . 
Where ever the sensor is worn on the body , it will provide indicators of a fever , respiratory difficulties , " molecular biomarkers " of exposure to the virus and even the presence of antibodies against it . 
Head of the FDA is self quarantining : Dr . Stephen Hahn , the head of the Food and Drug Administration , will self quarantine for 14 days after coming in contact with an individual who tested positive for coronavirus , an FDA spokesperson told CNN . 
Reopening : There are 47 states that will be partially opened by tomorrow . 
Today , more restrictions are easing , though , in five states including Rhode Island where retail shops are reopening . 
Democratic National Convention : House Speaker Nancy Pelosi suggested the convention could still be held in person if attendees sat 6 feet apart . 
" So maybe you , instead of having 80,000 people there you would have 16,000 people there and just do it all in one day , " she said . 
