In a nationally televised press conference on Saturday , Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez was asked by CNN about the existence of a Johns Hopkins University ranking on Covid 19 testing that he had boasted about . 
In a previous press conference on April 28 , Sánchez said the university 's rankings showed Spain was fifth in the world in testing rates . 
But , those international rankings appear not to exist . 
CNN informed Sánchez during Saturday ’s press conference that Johns Hopkins was unable to locate such rankings and that the Health Ministry had not responded . 
Asked if his office could point to the rankings he had referred to , Sanchez said only that " The numbers are there . " 
He then went on to read out the government ’s latest testing data . 
When CNN first asked Sánchez about testing rates on April 28 , the prime minister also cited contested Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ( OECD ) data showing Spain was 8th in the world for testing rates . 
But even before Sánchez answered the question , the OECD had issued a statement correcting its data , after acknowledging it had mistakenly included Spain ’s antibody testing rates in the overall numbers , which skewed its position . 
The updated OECD chart at the time showed Spain had the 17th highest testing rate , not the 8th , for Covid 19 . 
Some more context : In April , CNN followed up with Johns Hopkins University to verify the rankings , but a spokesperson said , " We were not able to immediately locate such a report . " 
When CNN asked if Johns Hopkins was tracking testing data outside the US , the spokesperson said , " We have elaborate US testing tracking efforts , including state comparisons , right now . " 
On its coronavirus website , Johns Hopkins maps Covid 19 infections and deaths around the world and appears to only be tracking testing rates in the US . 
In April , CNN also asked the Spanish Health Ministry to send a link or proof that the rankings existed . 
They did not reply . 
The Spanish prime minister and his government have been accused by opposition parties and criticized by some of the country ’s leading media of manipulating Spain ’s test ranking figures . 
On Saturday , Sanchez said that as of May 7 , Spain had completed 1,625,211 PCR tests , and 842,550 antibody tests . 
" We are one of the countries doing the most testing , " he said . 
