Even as coronavirus cases rise across Europe and in the UK , London 's leaders are looking for ways to help the capital " reinvent itself " and emerge stronger from the pandemic . 
The City of London wants to revamp the capital 's transport network to suit different commuting patterns as more people work from home , with the creation of " flexible working " season tickets one option being considered . 
It also wants to encourage small businesses and arts organizations back to the capital ’s center by providing affordable and " hyper flexible " working spaces , according to a new report from the City of London Corporation , published on Tuesday . 
This could include transforming offices into hubs that can be rented flexibly , or turning unused space into artists ’ studios or pop up galleries . 
" London is today facing major challenges , " said Catherine Mc Guinness , policy chair at the City of London Corporation , in a news release . 
" Coronavirus , the UK ’s exit from the European Union and increasing protectionism across the globe are all threats to the capital ’s role as an international business hub . " 
The City ’s goal is for a fifth of office tenants in London ’s " Square Mile " to be new businesses within five years , according to the report , " London Recharged : Our vision for London in 2025 . " 
It wants half of all journeys from major train stations to workplaces to be made on foot or by bicycle -- and 99 % of all above ground journeys under one kilometer . 
The report suggests prioritizing pedestrians at crossings and developing routes through the city ’s green " arteries . " 
It also wants to increase the numbers of evening and weekend visitors to the city center by 50 % , reduce buildings ' carbon emissions and ensure buses and daytime delivery vehicles are electric . 
It recommends making the case for visa and immigration changes to make it simpler for skilled workers to enter the UK ; establishing a fund to support digital transformation and providing dedicated funding for underrepresented groups . 
