The global toll : There are 381,293 cases of novel coronavirus and 16,508 deaths globally , according to the Johns Hopkins University , which is tracking figures from the World Health Organization and additional sources . 
China : For the first time in six days , China has reported a new case of coronavirus in Hubei province -- ground zero for the pandemic . 
Mainland China reported 78 new cases on Monday , of which 74 were imported , and seven new deaths , according to the National Health Commission . 
A total of 73,159 patients in mainland China have recovered and been discharged from hospital . 
43 % of US population told to stay at home : At least 16 states have issued stay at home orders , which will impact 142 million people , or 43 % of the US population , according to data compiled by CNN using US Census population estimates . 
UK lockdown : Prime Minister Boris Johnson imposed the most stringent social restrictions on the British public since the end of World War II . 
The public is being told stay at home , with exceptions for shopping for basic necessities ; one form of exercise a day ; medical need ; and , for designated key workers , traveling to and from work . 
More countries restrict movement and travel Cuba is limiting travel to and within its borders . 
From Tuesday , all schools will be closed for a month and the government will " regulate " Cubans ability to leave the communist run island . 
South Africa will enforce a three week lockdown starting at midnight on March 26 . 
Zimbabwe announced the closure of all borders , except for returning residents and cargo , effective immediately . 
The Netherlands will ban all public gatherings until June 1 . 
More than 750 million people across India are under lockdown . 
Virus hotspots : Italy has confirmed 601 new coronavirus related deaths in the past 24 hours , bringing the total number of fatalities to 6,077 and 63,927 cases . 
US state health officials reported more than 100 coronavirus related deaths in a single day for the first time during the outbreak . 
There are at least 42,663 cases of the coronavirus in the US , and 541 people have died . 
Sports : There is a growing chorus of voices calling for the 2020 Summer Olympics to be postponed . 
The IOC said it has given itself a deadline of four weeks to make a decision on the Games . 
Meanwhile , all UEFA club soccer finals , including the Champions League Final , have been postponed indefinitely . 
Hospitals running out of supplies : Hospitals in Oklahoma have just 9.3 days worth of personal protective equipment on hand , on average , and California is calling for 50,000 more hospital beds . 
Meanwhile , some of Brazil ’s soccer stadiums , arenas and convention centers will be converted into field hospitals to treat patients infected with the virus . 
The US military is also looking into deploying field hospitals and personnel this week to areas in need like Seattle and New York City . 
