As the coronavirus spreads politicians and their families are being affected , too . 
Many have gotten tested this week , with some confirming that they have contracted the virus . 
Here 's a look at politicians affected by the virus : In the US , President Donald Trump tested negative for the virus , after coming into contact with Brazilian delegates who tested positive after the meeting . 
Miami Mayor Francis Suarez has tested positive . 
9 lawmakers are also under self quarantine after coming into contact with infected people . 
In Canada , Prime Minister Justin Trudeau 's wife Sophie has tested positive . 
She and Trudeau are now under isolation . 
Trudeau says he will continue his duties , but he has not been tested for the virus as he shows no symptoms . 
In France , four politicians have tested positive : a member of parliament , a parliament staffer , the Minister of Culture , and the Secretary of State to the Minister for Ecological and Inclusive Transition . 
In Spain , the wife of Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez tested positive . 
They are both in good condition and are following health officials ' preventative measures . 
In Brazil , three members of a delegation that visited the US have tested positive : Brazil ’s Chargé d 'Affaires in Washington , a senator , and the president 's press secretary . 
In the UK , the junior health minister has the virus . 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson was at a meeting with her not long before she tested positive , but he has said he will not get tested , as he is showing no symptoms . 
In the Philippines , President Rodrigo Duterte tested negative , after potentially being exposed to an infected patient . 
In Iran , 8 % of the government has tested positive , or 23 of its 290 member parliament . 
Two members have died . 
Several vice presidents , of which Iran has many , have tested positive . 
In Australia , the home affairs minister tested positive , less than a week after meeting with US Attorney General William Barr , senior White House adviser Ivanka Trump and other White House officials . 
In Mongolia , President Khaltmaagiin Battulga and other officials are under quarantine for two weeks , after returning from a one day trip to China . 
The leader has since reportedly tested negative . 
