At the beginning of the year , parts of East Asia were a somewhat scary place to be as the coronavirus rapidly spread across mainland China and its neighbors . 
But now East Asian governments have reported a steady drop in new cases and are gradually beginning to relax lockdown measures . 
As the situation has grown increasingly dire in the West , Asia now feels like one of the safest places in the world . 
But the West did not have to go through the same cycles as Asia , where governments and public health systems had little warning of the virus . 
Anger is growing in many countries over governments ' failure to respond when the situation was clear . 
Someone else 's problem : While authorities were taken unaware by how quickly and widely the virus spread itself , multiple experts agreed there was also a general sense of complacency among governments in the West that the outbreak was a China -- or an Asian -- problem , and would not necessarily behave the same way inside their borders . 
Failure to act : For all the blame laid at China 's door for its failure to act early in the pandemic , officials there did not know what they were dealing with . 
By comparison , officials in Europe and the US knew what they were facing once the outbreak reached their borders , but were often slow to react , wasting time as the virus spread through Asia and ignoring lessons learned by other countries . 
The last war : From the get go , the current pandemic was seen as a rerun of severe acute respiratory syndrome ( SARS ) , from its emergence in China , to that government 's apparent attempt at a coverup , to how it spread through Asia . 
In East Asia , which was badly affected by the 2003 outbreak , it put governments and the public on greater guard , with people faster to wear face masks and exercise social distancing . 
But while SARS may have led to faster action in one part of the world , the 2003 outbreak may have led officials elsewhere to take the opposite approach . 
Read the full story here : 
