The UK government ’s plan to relax lockdown measures has been criticized over a perceived lack of clarity . 
Boris Johnson announced a new " stay alert " slogan and a reopening timeline for the country on Sunday . 
Johnson some people should return to work immediately and that unlimited exercise was now permitted for all . 
But on Monday , UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab deviated from the Prime Minister 's announcement on several points during an interview with the BBC . 
The British government will release a 50 page document providing more details later today . 
A change in message , but only for England Johnson announced that England would change its messaging from " Stay home " to " Stay alert , " putting it at odds with the UK 's other three countries . 
Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland have extended their lockdowns to May 28 . 
Officials from all three nations said there had been no coordination between their governments and Downing Street over the new messaging , and they would continue to spread the " Stay home " message among their own people . 
Should people return to work ? 
Johnson said workers who could not work from home , including those in construction or manufacturing , could return to their jobs on Monday , though he urged those workers to avoid public transportation if possible . 
Raab contradicted this on Monday , telling the BBC that workers should return to their posts on Wednesday , and refusing to answer whether employees would be able to walk out of workplaces they considered insecure . 
" Employers have a duty on them to provide Covid secure settings , " Raab said . 
The head of one of the UK 's largest trade unions told the BBC on Monday that " millions of people " would be " dumbfounded " by the government ’s plan . 
When will the quarantine of foreign travelers begin ? 
Travelers entering the UK will be quarantined for 14 days , Johnson announced , but it is unclear when this measure will be put in place , and the policy will not apply to people traveling from France . 
Raab was unable to say when the measure would start , and it is unclear whether the restrictions apply only to planes . 
