Several beaches across Florida are closed for the Fourth of July weekend due to coronavirus concerns . 
However , that ’s not the case yet for residents of St . Petersburg who have access to beaches within driving distance in their county . 
Mayor Rick Kriseman says he thinks that it ’s a policy that the county has to consider . 
" I think it 's a policy [ the county officials ] have got to consider as we come up to July 4 weekend . 
We know it 's always a busy time at our beaches that weekend . " 
Kriseman also criticized Florida Gov . 
Ron De Santis for not implementing statewide policies at this time to combat the surge in cases , and instead , leaving it up to the local governments to take action on a number of issues such as beach closures and wearing masks . 
In further criticism , Kriseman said that De Santis has been " very inaccessible " to mayors across Florida , which is an impediment to statewide action against the virus . 
" That 's one of the frustrations that myself and other mayors around the state have had . 
The governor has been very inaccessible to all of us , so we have not had those conversations . 
I 've certainly been very vocal about the fact that I think it works best when it 's statewide policy and if we ca not have that then countywide policy and if we ca not have that then individual cities , " he said . 
" But it really should come down from the state . " 
Kriseman also dismissed De Santis ’ claims that the surge in cases is partially due to a backlog in tests . 
" That explanation is really quite frankly silly . 
What we look at is the percentage of positive tests . 
So we 've had days where maybe we 'll have 1,500 tests that are done . 
Other days where we 'll have 3,500 tests that are done , but what really matters is what are those percentages of those tests that are being done that are coming back positive , " he explained . 
St . Petersburg , Florida , was seeing a percentage of 1.5 % to 2 % positive cases on a two week rolling basis in late April and early May . 
In the last two weeks , the rolling average has risen to 10 % , he said . 
