Florida beaches from Palm Beach to Key West will be closed for the Fourth of July holiday weekend . 
Here are the counties that have announced closures : Monroe County Monroe County , along with all municipalities in the Florida Keys , will be closing beaches beginning at 5 p.m . on Thursday , through the morning of Tuesday , July 7 , according to Monroe County Public Information Officer Kristen Livengood . 
The city of Key West said in a statement that its beach closure is being done " to avoid large crowds gathering during this Covid 19 pandemic . 
The closure dovetails with that of Monroe County ’s beaches to help send a clear message of safety . " 
In that statement , Key West city officials added that masks will be required inside establishments , though they can be removed – once people are seated – to eat in a complying restaurant . 
Masks are also required outdoors when people are unable to remain six feet from others , such as walking down a crowded sidewalk . 
Miami Dade County Miami Dade County Mayor Carlos Giménez says all beaches and parks in the county will close this Friday , through Tuesday , July 7 . 
He warned the closure could be extended if conditions do not improve and people do not follow rules designed to curb the spread of the coronavirus . 
Broward County Deputy County Administrator Monica Cepero issued an Emergency Order 20-19 , which officially closes the beaches from 12:01 a.m . on Friday through 11:59 p.m . on Sunday . 
The order also clearly identifies the entities authorized to enforce the closure and sets forth consequences for non compliance , including civil and criminal penalties . 
Palm Beach County Palm Beach County Mayor Dave Kerner told CNN on Sunday that he will also be issuing an order to close beaches under his jurisdiction . 
" In consultation with our county administrator , we will be issuing an order tomorrow , tomorrow morning , that will close the Palm Beach County beaches throughout the entirety of the county for the holiday weekend , " Kerner said . 
" It is an unfortunate result , but public health remains the focus of the elected leaders of Palm Beach County , " Kerner added . 
" Unfortunately , this Fourth of July will not be spent at the beach . " 
Kerner ’s office tells CNN the closures will be from Friday until Sunday . 
