The Chinese media 's reporting of the death of coronavirus whistleblower doctor Li Wenliang caused confusion and anger last night , as Li was first pronounced dead , then alive and , finally , dead again . 
Here is how the reporting of Li 's death played out over Thursday and Friday , local time : Around 10 p.m . Thursday : News begins to circulate on Chinese social media that Li has died of the Wuhan coronavirus , prompting an outpouring of grief and anger online . 
10:40 p.m . Thursday : Chinese state run tabloid Global Times and the Communist Party 's official newspaper People 's Daily tweet that Li has died . 
Around 11:30 p.m . : The World Health Organization ( WHO ) tweets that it is " deeply saddened " by Li 's death . 
It later deletes the tweet and clarifies that it has no information on Li 's status . 
12:38 a.m . Friday : Wuhan Central Hospital releases a statement saying Li has not died , but is in a critical condition and doctors are attempting to resuscitate him . 
Around this time , the Global Times and People 's Daily reports on Li 's death are deleted . 
12:57 a.m . Friday : Global Times says on its official Twitter that Li is " still under emergency treatment " and that his heart stopped beating at around 9.30 p.m . Thursday local time . 
Around 2 a.m . Friday : The tide of emotion continues to grow on Chinese social media , with widespread calls for freedom of speech that are quickly deleted by censors . 
3:48 a.m . Friday : Wuhan Central Hospital announces that Li died at 2.58 a.m . despite attempts to resuscitate him . 
Around 4 a.m . Friday : The Global Times and then People 's Daily tweet ( again ) that Li is dead . 
The Global Times references Li 's role as a whistleblower who tried to raise awareness of the coronavirus back in December . 
Early Friday morning : The top comments under the Wuhan hospital 's announcement of Li 's death show anger at the handling of the news . 
One post reads : " You think we 've all gone to sleep ? 
No . 
We have not . " 
Read more here 
