Crowds have gathered at shopping malls and supermarkets across Colombia to take advantage of a government mandated VAT free day for shoppers , despite warnings from health experts that the South American country is far from past its peak of coronavirus cases . 
On Friday morning , scenes at malls resembled those on Black Friday , the shopping bonanza in the US in late November . 
Photos circulated on social media showing huge crowds of people packed into stores , albeit while wearing face masks . 
Es increíble vivir en un país donde en medio de pandemia la gente si sale al # Dia Sin IVA antes que salir a exigir el cumplimiento de sus derechos fundamentales y denunciar los graves hechos de corrupción en el país ! ! 
Colombia is continuing to relax its lockdown measures , despite cases of Covid 19 climbing over 3000 every day . 
60,000 cases have been confirmed with 1950 deaths . 
Last weekend ICU occupancy passed 50 % in Bogotá - the capital - leading city officials to tighten restrictions . 
Yet Colombia ’s president Iván Duque appears to be more concerned with reopening the economy . 
Friday ’s VAT holiday will be followed by two more in the coming weeks , aimed at getting the economy going once more . 
An analyst at El Espectador , one of Colombia ’s largest newspapers , wrote on Friday that the measure was likely inspired by the US , " where tax holidays are universally recognized as demagogic policies , " that do little to relieve hard hit consumers and instead benefit large scale retailers . 
Todavía no hay suficientes camas de UCIs , no se ha terminado de girar plata a hospitales , no hay suficientes respiradores pero hay # Dia Sin IVA Esto ocurre en Cali . 
@ miguel APalta With queues snaking around stores and malls overnight , many took to social media to voice their umbrage with the reckless policy . 
" There ’s still not enough ICU beds … there ’s not enough respirators , but this is a VAT free day , " one person tweeted , with a video of queues in Cali , a major city in the country ’s western Cauca Valley . 
Colombia ’s inspector general , Fernando Carrillo Florez , lambasted the tax holiday . 
" It can become one of the largest sources of infection , " he tweeted . 
" In one day of irresponsibility , we can lose what we gained in 100 days of lockdown . " 
