Pfizer and Bio NTech have submitted to the US Food and Drug Administration for emergency use authorization for their coronavirus vaccine candidate . 
This is the first coronavirus vaccine to seek a regulatory OK in the United States . 
Pfizer and Bio NTech said a statement Friday that their vaccine candidate , known as BNT162b2 , will potentially be available for use in high risk populations in the United States by the middle to end of December . 
The submission to the FDA is based on results from the Phase 3 clinical trial of Pfizer ’s vaccine , which began in the United States on July 27 and enrolled more than 43,000 volunteers . 
The final analysis from the trial found the coronavirus vaccine was 95 % effective in preventing infections , even in older adults , and caused no serious safety concerns , Pfizer and its German partner , Bio NTech , announced this week . 
The submission also includes safety data on about 100 children ages 12 to 15 . 
About 42 % of global participants and 30 % of US participants in the Phase 3 study have racially and ethnically diverse backgrounds , the companies said in a news release , and 41 % of global and 45 % of US participants are ages 56 to 85 . 
Another possible vaccine candidate : Moderna , another pharmaceutical company , announced Monday that early results from its clinical trials show their vaccine is 94.5 % effective . 
The company plans to apply to the FDA for authorization after it accumulates more safety data later this month . 
The FDA has scheduled a meeting of its Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee , a group of outside experts , for Dec . 8 , 9 and 10 , a source familiar with the process told CNN this week . 
The agency could make a decision at the end of the meeting on Dec . 10 about whether to issue an emergency use authorization , the source said . 
Emergency use authorization , or EUA , from the FDA is not the same as full approval . 
An EUA allows products to be used under particular circumstances before all the evidence needed for approval is available . 
The agency must determine the product ’s " known and potential benefits outweigh its known and potential risks . " 
