Even as new outbreaks of novel coronavirus are reported around the world and we edge towards pandemic levels , the situation is stabilizing in some areas where infections were first detected and people are starting to return to normality . 
In China , there has been a major drop in the number of new cases reported in the past week , particularly outside of Hubei , the province where the outbreak began . 
This has led some areas to lower travel restrictions and begin the slow process of getting back to work . 
Downgrading the virus : Liaoning , a province in northeastern China that borders North Korea , was the first to downgrade the coronavirus emergency response level from the highest level -- Level 1 -- to Level 3 on Saturday , according to a statement by the provincial government . 
This was followed by Shanxi , Guangdong , Yunnan , Gansu and Guizhou , accounting for some 305 million people . 
In Hong Kong too , where actions taken by the semiautonomous Chinese city appear to have avoided an outbreak on the scale of the 2003 severe acute respiratory syndrome ( SARS ) crisis , there is a sense of very gradual relaxation . 
Some are even dispensing with face masks , previously a rare sight . 
Danger may be far from over : While a desire to return to normal after weeks of paranoia and quarantine is understandable , the danger may be far from over , particularly in mainland China . 
Since the outbreak began in December last year , more than 78,000 cases have been confirmed inside of Mainland China , with the death toll rising to more than 2,700 . 
Question over data : Serious questions remain over the accuracy of the country 's data on the virus , however , with multiple shifts in how cases are reported or categorized . 
Outside of Hubei itself , where a huge amount of resources and emergency staff have been deployed , there are fears that cases may be missed or go undiagnosed . 
Even if the data is accurate , and the number of cases is stabilizing , it may be weeks before it is safe for people to be moving around freely again or gathering in large numbers . 
We know that the virus can lie dormant and there is strong evidence that it is spread while people are asymptomatic . 
Read more here . 
