Germany ’s capital Berlin will not ease restrictions during the festive season because it is currently a coronavirus hotspot , its mayor Michael Müller said on Thursday . 
Infection rates in Berlin are ' ' still alarming ' ' with 200 new infections per 100,000 inhabitants within one week , he said , adding that coronavirus restrictions should be tightened even further . 
Berlin ’s rules over the Christmas holiday are : 5 people from up to 5 households may gather , not counting children From December 1 , masks will be required in public areas , including streets with many shops and many people -- as well as in waiting lines and inside stores Berlin will not ban fireworks and firecrackers everywhere , however , there will be special zones where they will not be allowed On Friday , Germany became the latest country to surpass 1 million coronavirus infections since the pandemic began . 
This news was topped off by a second consecutive record daily death toll . 
In a nationwide bid to curb the rate of infections in time for Christmas , German chancellor Angela Merkel announced new measures to beef up the recently extended light lockdown this week . 
They came into force today and will last until at least December 20 , with the likelihood of being further extended into January . 
Across Europe , governments are also making plans to " save " Christmas . 
France 's lockdown will begin to ease this weekend and restrictions could be lifted further on December 15 , if the daily number of cases drops under 5,000 and there are only 2,000-3,000 in hospital ICUs . 
In Northern Ireland , tougher coronavirus restrictions came into force today in a bid to find some form of normalcy around the holiday . 
First Minister Arlene Foster said during a press briefing on Thursday that the two week " circuit breaker " lockdown is " crucial in getting our rates down so that we can all have the safest and the happiest Christmas possible in these exceptional circumstances , " she added . 
Earlier this week , the UK government announced it would temporarily relax coronavirus restrictions to allow up to three households to celebrate together in " Christmas bubbles . " 
Elsewhere , leaders in Italy and Germany have urged the public to obey rules now to enjoy the festive season later . 
