President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence both stumbled over medical details , and spread inaccurate information , while touting new coronavirus tests and potential treatments . 
Trump mentioned anti malaria drugs that are being tested as potential treatments , saying that the clinical trials are " having some good results , " even though public health officials say the results are months away . 
Moments later , Vice President Mike Pence said the Food and Drug Administration had " approved " a new method to test the coronavirus , even though the FDA only granted emergency authorization for the test , which requires a much lower standard . 
Facts First : Both comments overstate the medical realities a bit . 
For Trump , he has repeatedly touted and expressed unbridled optimism about the drugs , even without conclusive scientific data to back up his claims . 
For Pence , he oversold the FDA ’s confidence in the new Covid 19 test . 
In recent weeks , Trump has repeatedly touted two pharmaceuticals , chloroquine and the chemically similar hydroxychloroquine , as potential " game changers " that could end the pandemic and save lives . 
This is the continuation of a glaring messaging gap within the administration . 
Trump has breathlessly promoted the drugs while the public health officials are cautiously waiting for scientific evidence , and tamping down expectations , by saying that the information out there already is only anecdotal and not proven on a large scale . 
Later in the press conference , Pence brought up the new blood test for coronavirus antibodies . 
" And the big news , of course , over the last few days was that the FDA , once again , in near record time , has approved an antibody test developed by Cellex , " Pence said . 
This is not quite accurate . 
The FDA uses very specific terminology about medical drugs , tests and equipment , and the FDA would likely disagree with the notion that it " approved " the test . 
These terms are important , as medical professionals need clarity to be sure their use of these items is safe for every patient . 
What really happened was that the FDA granted " emergency use authorization " for the tests . 
This essentially means that the FDA will let health care providers use the tests during this crisis , even though it has not gone through all the steps that medicines and medical tests usually go through before receiving a full " approval . " 
