White House officials were urgently assessing as yet unconfirmed reports Friday that Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro had tested positive for coronavirus after meeting with President Trump at Mar a Lago . 
The White House had said a day earlier that neither Trump nor Vice President Pence would be tested themselves , despite coming into contact with an aide to Bolsonaro who did test positive . 
But the calculus in the White House is changing , one official said . 
Aides are currently weighing whether Trump should be tested , but it was still not clear whether he will . 
Officials said the White House was constantly evaluating whether to test the President and take measures to prevent the virus ’s spread further among Trump ’s close confidantes , according to one senior official , who said aides are keenly aware of the optics of testing the President . 
Others close to the President said they believed he would eventually be tested — if he had not already been so — despite denials from the White House . 
The decision would likely be closely held . 
The White House did not respond on the record to a question about whether their Thursday statement that the President had not been tested still stood . 
The White House said on Thursday that neither Trump nor Pence had displayed any symptoms , though asymptomatic people can still spread the virus and some studies have shown symptoms can begin displaying only after five days . 
Trump and Bolsonaro met last Saturday at Mar a Lago . 
Some inside the White House have privately wondered why Trump is not being tested , according to officials , who said those people believe it would be a prudent step as Trump continues to meet with people , including a meeting scheduled for later Friday with laboratory industry officials . 
Some of Trump ’s closest congressional allies — including Sens . 
Lindsey Graham and Rick Scott , Reps . 
Matt Gaetz , Doug Collins and Mark Meadows , his new chief of staff — have all taken precautionary self quarantine measures after coming into contact with people who tested positive for the virus . 
One White House official noted Trump is always technically " working from home " when he 's at the White House and does not have any public plans to leave in the next few days . 
Pence , meanwhile , is not going to be tested unless something changes in the coming days , according to a person familiar with the matter . 
He did not attend the dinner with Bolsonaro or interact closely with the press secretary , so they have been advised again by his doctor that he does not need it . 
