The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention began shipping coronavirus test kits to state labs this week on Wednesday , the agency announced . 
The tests , which can produce results in as little as four hours , will allow states to confirm their own cases of the novel coronavirus , rather than waiting for confirmation from the CDC . 
Previously , the CDC was the only lab in the United States able to test for the novel coronavirus . 
The CDC says will distribute about 200 test kits to domestic labs and another 200 to international labs . 
Each test kit can perform 700 to 800 patient samples . 
The diagnostic is authorized to be used for patients who meet CDC criteria for testing , and by qualified labs designated by the CDC or certified to perform high complexity tests . 
These include 115 US labs such as state and local public health labs and Department of Defense labs , as well as 191 international labs . 
About the test : It ’s known as a reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction test ( RT PCR ) and can detect the virus from nasal or oral swabs when used with an existing RT PCR instrument — the same one often used to test for seasonal influenza , the agency says . 
Negative results do not preclude infection with the virus , the FDA noted in a press release , adding that negative results must be combined with clinical observations , patient history and epidemiological information . 
The FDA issued an emergency use authorization on Tuesday for the test , though it is not technically FDA approved . 
As of Wednesday , the CDC has listed a total of 293 people under investigation for the novel coronavirus in 36 states since January 21 , according to an update posted to the agency 's website . 
There are 12 confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus in the United States . 
Six cases have been confirmed in California , one in Massachusetts , one in Washington state , one in Arizona , one in Wisconsin and two in Illinois . 
This includes two instances of known person to person transmission , one in Illinois and one in California . 
