Although a coronavirus vaccine is not yet approved , states are beginning to outline their plans for distributing the shots among key sectors of their population . 
Florida posted a " draft " Covid 19 Vaccination Plan on its Department of Health website likely updated last week . 
The 50 page document says the state is planning to use a " time phased " strategy that prioritizes health care personnel , essential workers , people with medical conditions that place them at higher risk of complications , and people over age 65 . 
According to the draft document , Florida is waiting on additional guidance and materials from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention regarding Covid 19 specific training materials . 
Here is a look at what the phased strategy would look like : Phase 1 : There would be a limited supply of the vaccine in this phase and it would require prioritizing its administration , according to the document . 
During this phase , the vaccine would be administered to health care workers , long term care staff and residents , as well as first responders . 
Phase 2 : A large number of doses would be available during this phase . 
At that time , vaccination will be expanded to state managed vaccination sites , routine health care delivery settings for children , hospital in patients and outpatients , and community based based vaccination sites . 
The third and final phase : During this phase , the vaccine would be widely available . 
Demand for the vaccine is expected to stabilize , and the state will transition to provide the vaccine through routine health care delivery systems and commercial pharmacies . 
Pharmacies will be queried about their storage and refrigeration capabilities . 
The document warns that prioritization of vaccine recipients has not been finalized by the CDC , and priority groups may vary based on the vaccine that is ultimately approved . 
The vaccination plan comes as the number of reported Covid 19 cases per week in the state has tripled since Gov . 
Ron De Santis reopened Florida in late September . 
In a video address last week , De Santis announced the state purchased millions of needles , syringes and alcohol swaps to prepare for the distribution of a vaccine . 
The state has identified five hospital systems across the state that can store vaccines at extreme cold temperatures . 
CNN reached out to the Florida Department of Health regarding the " draft " vaccination plan and has not heard back . 
