New York City public schools will remained closed until the end of this school year due to coronavirus concerns , New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said at a press conference early Saturday morning . 
De Blasio said reopening schools for a few weeks is unrealistic because of the amount of preparation that is needed to do it safely . 
He said bringing students back until June does not provide much reward academically , and if buildings did reopen , many of them would have to close again because of individual coronavirus cases . 
City officials will be working with the state of New York to meet state regulations of how many hours students have to be in the classroom . 
Student classrooms hours will be consistent with social distancing guidelines , the mayor said . 
The mayor laid out a five point plan to help students : Attendance is being taken once a day at virtual schools , the New York City chancellor said , as he cautioned they are getting in contact with students that have not been in contact with them . 
When asked if summer school would happen this year , de Blasio responded , officials wo not know about summer school " until we have a lot more answers . " 
New York Gov . 
Andrew Cuomo acknowledged the mayor 's position on schools in a press conference hours later but added " there has been no decision on schools . " 
" There has been no decision , that ’s the mayor 's opinion , I value it " along with all the other county executives but " the decision will be coordinated among all of them , " Cuomo said . 
Regarding the mayor ’s position of closing schools until June , Cuomo said " we may do that , but we 're going to do it in a coordinated sense with the other localities , " including the counties in New York . 
When asked if de Blasio 's decision was invalid , Cuomo said " that ’s his opinion , but he did not close them and he ca not open them , it happened on a metropolitan wide basis and we ’re going to either ; we ’ll act on a metropolitan wide basis . " 
Some context : The New York City school system is the largest school district in the US with 1.1 million students , according to the city 's Department of Education . 
