Two influential medical journals have issued expressions of concern about the data used in different coronavirus studies -- data that came from the same international registry . 
One study , in the Lancet , found that giving hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine to hospitalized coronavirus patients was linked to increased rates of mortality and serious heart rhythm complications . 
" We are issuing an Expression of Concern to alert readers to the fact that serious scientific questions have been brought to our attention , " the Lancet editors wrote , noting that " important scientific questions have been raised about data " in the paper . 
The Lancet said results of an independent audit to determine the validity of the data in the study , published May 22 , were expected " very shortly . " 
Its study had provided a counterpoint to US President Donald Trump , who has called hydroxychloroquine a " game changer . " 
Another study , published in the New England Journal of Medicine on May 1 , found that certain heart disease drugs , including ACE inhibitors , did not worsen the risk of death for coronavirus patients . 
Both studies used data from Surgisphere , which describes itself as a " public service organization dedicated to making the world a better place . " 
" Our multi national observational registry study published in The Lancet Medical Journal has been met with both high praise and some skepticism from the scientific community and global institutions , " Surgisphere said in a statement posted on its website . 
" The Surgisphere registry is an aggregation of the deidentified electronic health records of customers of Quartz Clinical , Surgisphere ’s machine learning program and data analytics platform , " it added . 
Surgisphere said it had detected a problem with one hospital in its database . 
" This hospital was properly reclassified in our database . 
The findings of the paper are unaffected by this update , " it said . 
Scientists independent of either study said even if the data mix up did not affect the conclusions , the discrepancies needed to be cleared up . 
