PA have produced a helpful overview of the UK coronavirus cases , which might help to map out what ’s happened so far : 31 January The first cases are reported in the UK when two members of the same family test positive for the virus . 
They had recently travelled to the UK from China . 
They were staying at a hotel in York when they fell ill and were taken to Newcastle Royal Victoria Infirmary for treatment . 
6 February A third person in the UK is diagnosed in Brighton and transferred to Guy ’s and St Thomas ’ in London . 
It later emerges that the patient , businessman Steve Walsh , contracted the virus at a conference in Singapore . 
On his way back to the UK , he stopped off for several days at a French ski chalet , where five Britons were subsequently infected with the virus . 
9 February Prof Chris Whitty , chief medical officer for England , says a fourth person has been diagnosed in the UK , believed to be a contact of Walsh . 
It is later confirmed that the virus was passed on in France . 
10 February Four more patients in England test positive for coronavirus , bringing the total number of cases in the UK to eight . 
Those infected are all contacts of Walsh and Public Health England ( PHE ) confirms two are healthcare workers . 
The four newly diagnosed people had contracted the virus in France . 
13 February A woman in London becomes the ninth person to test positive for the illness in the UK - the first confirmed case in the capital . 
The patient , also moved to Guy ’s and St Thomas ’ , contracted the virus in China , Whitty says . 
As with previously confirmed cases , officials work to identify people who had been in recent contact with the woman . 
23 February Four Britons rescued from the Diamond Princess cruise ship in Japan test positive for the illness in the UK , bringing the total number of confirmed cases to 13 . 
They were among a group of 30 Britons and two Irish citizens who arrived at a quarantine block at Arrowe Park hospital in Merseyside a day earlier . 
Whitty said the virus was passed on when all four were on board the vessel . 
27 February The first case of Covid 19 is diagnosed in Northern Ireland , while two more people tested positive across the rest of the UK . 
The patient in Belfast had recently returned from northern Italy and had previously been in Dublin . 
Another of the new cases , a parent at a Buxton primary school in Derbyshire , contracted the virus in Tenerife . 
The third patient also contracted the virus in Italy . 
28 February The number of confirmed UK cases jumps to 20 after Wales reports its first patient and three more are identified in England . 
Dr Frank Atherton , the chief medical officer for Wales confirmed a man had been diagnosed with the virus after travelling back to Wales from Italy . 
Two of the new cases identified in England had recently travelled back from Iran . 
Meanwhile , a patient identified in Surrey becomes the first to catch the illness within the UK . 
Prof Whitty says it is not clear if the patient had contracted the virus " directly or indirectly " from somebody who had recently travelled abroad . 
29 February Three more patients are identified in England . 
Two of the patients had recently travelled back from Italy while the other had returned from Asia . 
1 March The UK total climbs to 36 after 13 new patients are identified , with Scotland reporting its first case . 
Three of the latest cases in England are family members of a man from Surrey who was the first to catch the illness within the UK . 
All four are adults , including one more from Surrey and two from West Sussex , and are not GPs or health workers , acting regional director for the south of England for PHE says . 
Another new patient , from Essex , had no relevant travel to an affected area , according to Whitty , and it was unclear whether the patient had contracted it " directly or indirectly " from somebody who had recently travelled abroad . 
The eight remaining cases include one from Bury , Greater Manchester , who was infected in Italy , two new patients from Hertfordshire and one in London . 
Three cases were confirmed in West Yorkshire , including two Leeds residents – who became infected in Iran – while one is from Bradford who had been in Italy . 
Another is from Gloucestershire and is linked to a member of staff at a school in the Cotswolds , identified the day before . 
Meanwhile , the first person in Scotland to be diagnosed is a Tayside resident who recently travelled from Italy . 
