Adults who test positive for Covid 19 were approximately twice as likely to have reported dining at a restaurant than were those who test negative , according to a new study from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . 
The study , published on Thursday , included data on 314 adults who were tested for Covid 19 in July because they were experiencing symptoms : 154 tested positive and 160 tested negative . 
The tests were done at 11 different health care facilities across the United States , in California , Colorado , Maryland , Massachusetts , Minnesota , North Carolina , Ohio , Tennessee , Utah and Washington . 
The researchers – from the CDC and other institutions – took a close look at how those patients responded to questions about wearing masks and various activities in the community , including whether they recently dined at a restaurant , hung out a bar or went to a gym . 
What the study found : The data showed that 42 % of the adults who tested positive reported having close contact with at least one person known to have Covid 19 , compared with 14 % of those who tested negative – and most , 51 % , of the close contacts were family members . 
The researchers also found that 71 % of the adults with Covid 19 and 74 % of those who tested negative reported always using a face covering while in public . 
There were no significant differences between those who tested positive versus negative when it came to shopping , gathering with fewer than 10 people in a home , going to an office , going to a gym , going to a salon , using public transportation or attending religious gatherings , according to the study . 
However , the data showed that people who tested positive were more likely to have reported dining at a restaurant in the two weeks before they started to feel ill . 
" Adults with confirmed COVID 19 ( case patients ) were approximately twice as likely as were control participants to have reported dining at a restaurant in the 14 days before becoming ill , " the researchers wrote . 
" In addition to dining at a restaurant , case patients were more likely to report going to a bar/coffee shop , but only when the analysis was restricted to participants without close contact with persons with known COVID 19 before illness onset , " the researchers added . 
As states reopen , the CDC 's guidelines for restaurants and bars list dining options from the lowest to the highest risk on the agency 's website : Lowest risk : Food service limited to drive through , delivery , take out and curbside pick up . 
More risk : On site dining limited to outdoor seating . 
Seating capacity reduced to allow tables to be spaced at least 6 feet apart . 
Even more risk : On site dining with both indoor and outdoor seating . 
Seating capacity reduced to allow tables to be spaced at least 6 feet apart . 
Highest risk : On site dining with both indoor and outdoor seating . 
Seating capacity not reduced and tables not spaced at least 6 feet apart . 
The study 's limitations : The study comes with some limitations , including that more research is needed to determine whether similar findings would emerge among a larger group of patients , and the question assessing dining at a restaurant did not distinguish between indoor versus outdoor dining . 
" Reports of exposures in restaurants have been linked to air circulation . 
Direction , ventilation , and intensity of airflow might affect virus transmission , even if social distancing measures and mask use are implemented according to current guidance , " the researchers wrote . 
" Masks cannot be effectively worn while eating and drinking , whereas shopping and numerous other indoor activities do not preclude mask use . " 
