President Vladimir Putin said Russia will from next year increase taxes on high earners , the first hike in decades , as he laid out measures to tackle the economic fallout of the coronavirus . 
Addressing Russians in a lengthy televised speech , Putin said the country is facing huge economic challenges after the coronavirus epidemic and associated restrictions on business . 
A week before Russia votes for constitutional changes that give him the possibility to run for president two more times , Putin praised Russians for coming through " the most dangerous stage of the epidemic " . 
" In all , we have forced the epidemic to retreat ... but the virus is still dangerous , " he said . 
" The fight against the epidemic is ongoing . " 
Russia is currently ranked third in the world for the total number of cases with nearly 600,000 people having tested positive for the coronavirus . 
The country has however reported a considerably lower number of deaths associated with the infection than other countries where the epidemic was severe , with the total toll at 8,359 . 
Announcing an extension of the government ’s financial aid to families and healthcare workers , Putin suddenly suggested that the country ’s income tax policy be changed in order to finance treatment of children with rare diseases . 
He said that from 1 January 2021 the tax rate will rise from 13 % to 15 % on income over five million rubles ( $ 73,000 ) , in Russia ’s first move away from a flat tax rate introduced in 2001 . 
Putin said : Since 2001 we have had a flat tax . 
Its introduction at the time allowed us to take incomes out of the shadows , to make taxation easier . 
But now with a better quality of administration and the introduction of digital technologies , we can spread the tax burden in a differential way and direct the additional funds towards solving specific and important issues . 
The extra revenues would be used for " treating children with severe rare diseases , " buying expensive medication and funding complicated surgeries , Putin said . 
He said the 15 % tax would only be applied to income people make on top of the five million ruble mark , not their entire income . 
" But even that would add about 60bn rubles ( $ 872m ) to the budget , " he said . 
Russia ’s economic output fell by 12 % in April year on year , and by 10.9 % in May , according to the government . 
The central bank predicts the country wo not return to pre crisis levels of growth before 2022 . 
" The past months have been a time of massive challenges and difficult trials , " Putin said , outlining various measures to boost Russia ’s economic recovery , such as lowering taxes for some industries . 
" In essence , a global recession has begun ... the depth of this crisis is yet to be evaluated , " he said . 
" For Russia this is also a serious challenge . " 
