We 've entered the part of the negotiations over stimulus relief to the Covid 19 pandemic and its economic fallout where everyone is putting their ideas on the table . 
That 's productive , but with just nine days to go until the next spending deadline , there 's not much time left for it . 
There are a lot of proposals and none of them are ready to be voted on : The White House is officially back in the game on stimulus talks for the first time since the election . 
Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell is suggesting his own path forward , and the bipartisan group is still trying to solve for the problem of liability insurance that has confounded negotiators for months . 
The bottom line : The White House offer is dead on arrival by Democrats . 
All eyes on the bipartisan group and whether they can close their deal . 
The sticking point ? 
Money for state and local governments and liability protections . 
Key things to watch today : We are waiting on the bipartisan group to release a series of summaries on their proposal . 
Why ? 
Because putting it down on paper means the negotiations are serious . 
The summaries are not expected to include liability and state and local aide , but will be a snapshot of how they plan to structure other programs including the small business loan Paycheck Protection Program , education funding , transportation funding , opioid funding , unemployment extenders and the student loan payment freeze . 
A word of warning that the group involves a lot of players . 
Therefore any announcements on when these will be rolled out should be taken with caution as there are just a lot of members who have to agree before anything is seen publicly . 
More on the bipartisan group : While the group does include Republicans and Democrats and it 's grown to include members like Sen . 
Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican who has been helping on the liability piece , the Republicans in the bipartisan group do not represent the views of the GOP conference at large on some of these issues . 
What might work for Sen . 
Mitt Romney , a Republican from Utah , or Maine Republican Sen . 
Susan Collins may not work for Wyoming GOP Sen . 
John Barrasso . 
Even if the group irons out a final proposal and has bill text , it 's not the end of the agreement . 
There was some pushback in GOP lunch Tuesday over the path the bipartisan group is taking , according to aides . 
And , there is a recognition that leadership will eventually have to get involved in it . 
Mc Connell is not one to bring bills to the floor that only have a handful of Republican votes . 
He 's going to have to get broader buy in from the conference . 
Here 's more about where stimulus negotiations stand here . 
