White House Press Secretary Kayleigh Mc Enany would not directly answer when asked if President Trump or the White House would take responsibility if attendees catch coronavirus during a rally in Tulsa , Oklahoma set to be held Saturday . 
Mc Enany got into an extended exchange with CNN ’s Jim Acosta , but never responded directly to the question . 
" The campaign has taken certain measures to make sure this is a safe rally , temperature checks , hand sanitizers , and masks , " Mc Enany said during a press briefing Wednesday . 
" We are taking precautions . 
CNN reported that attendees of Trump 's upcoming rally must agree not to sue the campaign if they contract coronavirus . 
Rallygoers are asked to RSVP to gain admission to the event and by registering , they must agree to a disclaimer that states they acknowledge the " inherent risk of exposure to COVID 19 exists in any public place where people are present . " 
Asked by Acosta if attendees would be required to wear masks , Mc Enany said they will not be required . 
" They will be given a mask , it ’s up to them whether to make that decision , " she said , adding that , " CDC guidelines are recommended , but not required , " and that it was a " personal choice of individuals . " 
Mc Enany then accused the media of a lack of " internal coherence , " for not asking the same questions of the protesters who came out across the country after the death of George Floyd . 
Acosta pointed out that they were marching against injustice , racism , and police brutality , not attending a political rally , and again asked if the President or White House would take responsibility if people get sick . 
Mc Enany deflected , attacked health experts who came out in support of the protests , and reiterated that the campaign has taken " certain measures to make sure this is a safe rally . " 
Asked later by another reporter if the White House position was that outdoor events and indoor events carry the same risk for coronavirus , Mc Enany said that it ’s the White House position that " the media should not be making decisions about their guidelines to us about social distancing based on political ideology . " 
