After successfully tamping down the first surge of infection and death , Europe is now in the middle of a second coronavirus wave as it moves into winter . 
UK : England ’s largest study of coronavirus infections show the spread of the disease may be slowing , according to a team at Imperial College London , who analyzed samples from 84,000 people taken between September 18 to 26 . 
The study suggests that the latest R value ( the reproductive number ) had decreased from 1.7 to 1.1 -- but that a range of values from 0.7 to 1.5 mean that an accurate figure is hard to gauge . 
The findings , however did point to an increase in the spread of the virus in the community . 
The study estimated that 1 in 200 people across England have the virus , amounting to 0.55 % of the population . 
This is an increase in previous round of testing from the middle of August to the beginning of September , where the figure was 0.13 % of the population . 
Netherlands : More than 10,000 people in the Netherlands died from Covid 19 in the first wave of the pandemic , new statistics released on Thursday by Statistics Netherlands ( CBS ) show . 
In the months March through June , there were 7,797 deaths in which a doctor listed Covid 19 as the cause of death , and an additional 2,270 in which Covid 19 was listed as the suspected cause of death , totaling 10,067 . 
Germany : Germany lifted its blanket warning against traveling to all countries outside the European Union , the country ’s foreign ministry announced Thursday . 
Germany imposed a global travel warning at the beginning of March when the coronavirus outbreak hit Italy , lifting travel restrictions for most European countries in June . 
Spain : The government announced new coronavirus restrictions last night , which would put the capital Madrid into a form of lockdown . 
Gatherings will remain restricted to no more than six people , in both public or private spaces . 
Spain reported 11,016 new Covid 19 cases on Wednesday . 
Madrid alone reported 1,586 new infections , accounting for more than 40 % of the national increase . 
Italy : Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said he will ask parliament to extend the country 's Covid 19 state of emergency until the end of January . 
Speaking during an impromptu press conference in Caserta , Conte said that the Covid 19 situation requires " maximum attention , " even though the " spread is under control . " 
Italy was the first major European country to be affected by the coronavirus outbreak , and among the first countries to impose a strict national lockdown . 
