The numbers : More than 860,000 novel coronavirus cases have been reported around the world , according to Johns Hopkins University , which is tracking figures from the World Health Organization and additional sources . 
Greatest test : The coronavirus pandemic is the " greatest test " the world has faced since the United Nations was formed in the wake of World War II , said UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres . 
The US : At least 80 % of the US population is under a stay at home or shelter in place order , according to a CNN count . 
There are at least 185,499 cases of coronavirus in the country and at least 3,834 people have died . 
Some 830 fatalities were reported on Tuesday alone . 
Even with stringent mitigation efforts , between 100,000 and 240,000 Americans could die in the coming weeks , according to US government modeling . 
UK field hospital : Britain is planning to open a 4,000 bed field hospital , in what could be the biggest intensive care unit in the country , as cases continue to rise . 
The hospital is being built inside the Ex Cel Center convention hall in London 's East End . 
Count criteria changes : China is now including asymptomatic cases in its official count starting Wednesday . 
The move comes amid growing public concern over asymptomatic cases , of which 1,367 were under medical observation in China by the end of Tuesday . 
Latest from around Asia : Japan remains on the brink of an emergency as the numbers of coronavirus infections continues to increase , the country 's chief cabinet secretary said . 
Tokyo reported 78 new cases on Tuesday in the capital 's highest single day increase . 
Taiwan 's economic stimulus plan to tackle the coronavirus outbreak could reach as much as $ 35 billion , President Tsai Ing wen announced . 
Taiwan will be donating 10 million face masks to countries most in need . 
Companies step up : Hyundai Motor Group has provided two of its training institutes as treatment centers for coronavirus patients with mild symptoms . 
And Samsung , the world ’s largest maker of smartphones , TVs and memory chips , has sent its manufacturing experts to mask producing firms to increase output without adding new equipment . 
