Europe is struggling to find ways to allow its citizens to celebrate Christmas despite a bruising second wave of the coronavirus pandemic . 
Here are some updated holiday restrictions from Poland and Bulgaria . 
BULGARIA The Bulgarian government has decided to extend the closure of nightclubs , casinos , restaurants and sport halls until at least January 31 . 
Initial plans for these venues to reopen on December 21 have been revised , the government said in a statement Thursday . 
The ban extends to events , conferences and most shopping malls , with the exception of service providing businesses such as banks , pharmacies , shops , telecommunications companies . 
From January 1 , theaters , museums , galleries and cinemas can reopen , at 30 % capacity . 
Kindergartens , nurseries and classrooms for students from first to fourth grade will open after the holidays on January 4 . 
Hotel restaurants will have a shift system for breakfast , lunch and dinner , with no more than 50 % seating capacity being used and with a closing time of no later than 10 pm . 
On Thursday , the country ’s ministry of health reported 1,959 new Covid 19 cases . 
POLAND Poland will enter a national lockdown from December 28 to January 17 , with hotels , ski slopes and shopping malls closing and a New Year ’s Eve curfew , Health Minister Adam Niedzielski announced on Thursday . 
On New Year ’s Eve , residents are instructed to " stay at home " and avoid gathering with anyone outside of their household . 
All but essential movement will be prohibited from 7 pm on December 31 until 6 am on January 1 . 
A 10 day quarantine will be required for those returning to the country by public transportation . 
Theaters , cinemas and cultural centers , which have been closed since November 7 , will remain closed until January 17 . 
Restaurants remain closed except for takeout and delivery . 
Gatherings are limited to five people and participants must wear face coverings and maintain social distancing . 
Churches are limited to a maximum of one person per 15 square meters . 
Weddings , communions and parties are banned , and gyms remain closed . 
