The assistant secretary of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration , Dr . Elinore Mc Cance Katz , accused the media of being dishonest about the coronavirus pandemic and reiterated talking points about Covid 19 that President Trump has pushed for months , including that schools should reopen for in person learning and that very few children are affected by Covid 19 . 
" I just wish that the media would get honest about its coverage of Covid , " MCance Katz told embattled Department of Health and Human Services spokesperson Michael Caputo in the HHS " Learning Curve " podcast Friday . 
" For children , this is not a life threatening illness . " 
Mc Cance Katz , who was appointed to SAMHSA by Trump in 2017 , acknowledged that children do get the severe form of the virus " in rare cases , " but said " with a great , great majority of children this is not a serious illness , " something Trump has also repeated for months . 
" And when we put them in school with safety measures in place , why ca not they go to school ? " she burst out at one point in the interview . 
Many studies have shown children do get Covid 19 and do die from it . 
They also can spread the virus to others . 
The American Academy of Pediatrics says more than 500,000 children have been diagnosed with the infection . 
" So , lost in all of this response to Covid and nonstop 24/7 horrors of Covid and if you ca not find something to talk about , it appears to me they make things up . 
It just does , " Mc Cance Katz said at another point in the interview , referring to media coverage of the pandemic . 
Mc Cance Katz also expressed dismay with the way states have tried to handle the surging pandemic . 
" There was no agreement to this nonstop restriction and quarantining and isolation and taking away anything that makes people happy , " she said . 
" You ca not go to a movie , you ca not go to a football game . " 
Mc Cance Katz , a psychiatrist with a doctorate in infectious disease epidemiology from Yale , argued at one point that the shutdown last spring was too severe . 
She argued that getting the economy and schools reopened is integral for Americans ’ mental health . 
