It matters who the president is . 
Millions of lives and livelihoods depend on the character , competence , altruism and integrity of the person in the Oval Office -- whatever their party or ideology . 
But President Donald Trump -- as he devastatingly revealed in his own voice to Bob Woodward -- met the great crisis of his age with ineptness , dishonesty and an epic dereliction of duty . 
Rarely have a president 's actions -- or inaction -- and individual decisions on such a critical issue been so consequential and so exposed in his own time -- in this case in taped interviews with The Washington Post reporter for his new book , " Rage . " 
" I always wanted to play it down " : The scandal of negligence Woodward exposed is distinct from the whirlwind of political corruption , abuses of power , chaotic West Wing dramas and wild personality paroxysms that have defined Trump 's presidency . 
He ca not spin this one away as " fake news " because he is on tape . 
He indisputably told Woodward he purposefully minimized a once in a century health crisis . 
" I wanted to always play it down , " Trump told Woodward on March 19 . 
" I still like playing it down , because I do not want to create a panic . " 
Trump contradicts his own White House 's defense : Not every country is a South Korea or New Zealand -- which quickly understood the threat from the coronavirus and acted accordingly . 
There was plenty of failure in Europe , for instance , though most countries bought a summer respite from a mounting second wave . 
And a more honest approach by Trump would not have saved every American life . 
But his deliberate deception and lack of seriousness at a grave national moment turned the US response into one of the world 's worst . 
The failure laid bare by Woodward in the President 's own words is the ultimate repudiation of the " I alone can fix it " and " I know more about ISIS than the generals " school of leadership , in which Trump makes gut calls , ignores advice and puts politics above science . 
Read the full analysis : 
