The government of Spain is aiming to reopen the country for tourism in July . 
The prime ministers of Spain and Italy sent a joint letter Thursday to the European Commission President , Ursula Von der Leyen , asking her to take the lead so that in the European Union , " the lifting of restrictions at our internal borders must be carried out in coordinated , non discriminatory manner , " the letter stated . 
Just over half of Spain 's population will advance next Monday to the final phase of de escalation , allowing for more activities and movement , as the government lifts additional confinement measures that have been in place since March to battle the coronavirus pandemic , the government announced Friday . 
Parts of Spain advance to phase 3 of reopening : Starting next Monday , " 52 % of the Spanish population will be in phase 3 and 48 % in phase 2 , " Illa said . 
No part of Spain will remain in the more restrictive phase 1 . 
Officials say the territories with the least amount of new coronavirus cases and the best preparation for any new outbreaks advance to phase 3 , including the nation 's prime beach areas - Spain 's Balearic and Canary Islands , and Andalusia , with its long Mediterranean coastline . 
But the Madrid region and the Barcelona metropolitan area , will move only to Phase 2 , which allows indoor restaurant seating and shopping centers to reopen , but only at 40 percent of their client capacity . 
The two largest cities were the hardest hit areas in Spain by the coronavirus . 
Starting on June 8th , the territories in phase 3 will be managed by their respective regional governments , instead of the Spanish government , and the regions can decide if a particular territory is ready " to finish the state of alarm and move on to the new normality . 
This could be before June 21st , " Illa said . 
Some context : Spain and Italy are among the hardest hit countries in Europe by Covid 19 , and their potent tourism sectors have suffered , so the two prime ministers called on the EC to base the border openings on " common , clear and epidemiological criteria . " 
Various EU countries have talked of opening borders , closed due to Covid 19 , at different times . 
Spain 's parliament approved this week a final extension to the nation 's state of emergency , that began on March 14 and will now continue until June 21 , or just over three months in all . 
The Health Minister once again today called for prudence in these final steps of the de escalation process , so as not to go back in the fight against Covid 19 . 
