Vaccine hesitancy is not just a problem in the United States ; a large , global vaccine confidence survey released Thursday found that there are hesitancy hotspots around the world . 
Tracking attitudes towards vaccines is especially important at a time when one or more vaccines against the novel coronavirus are expected to become available soon . 
The large scale acceptance and uptake of an effective vaccine could help end the pandemic sooner rather than later . 
The new research examines the beliefs of more than 284,000 adults from 149 countries about how safe , effective and important vaccines are . 
Data was collected from 290 nationally representative surveys conducted between September 2015 and December 2019 ; some countries were surveyed just once while others were surveyed several times . 
The study was published Thursday in The Lancet . 
Among the findings : vaccine confidence in Europe remains low compared to other regions , ranging from a low of 19 % in Lithuania who strongly agree that vaccines are safe to a high of 66 % in Finland . 
But the researchers found signs that public trust in vaccine safety is increasing , particularly in Finland , France , Italy , Ireland and the United Kingdom . 
In contrast , six countries saw substantial increases in people strongly disagreeing vaccines are safe — not just being less convinced , but actively opposing the use of vaccines—between 2015 and 2019 : Afghanistan , Azerbaijan , Indonesia , Nigeria , Pakistan and Serbia . 
The researchers note that this " worrying trend " in negative attitudes mirrors trends in political instability and religious extremism . 
Poland saw a significant loss in confidence in vaccine safety , reflecting the growing impact of a highly organized local anti vaccine movement . 
In the US : The percentage of respondents who strongly agree that vaccines are safe remained steady between 2015 and 2019 , in the 50-59.9 % range . 
Those who strongly agreed that vaccines are important increased in the US to between 70 and 80 % in 2019 while the percentage saying vaccines are effective went up to 60-69.9 % . 
