A thick blanket of smog enveloped Pakistan ’s cultural capital of Lahore on Wednesday , prompting officials to warn that tens of thousands of the city ’s residents risk respiratory disease and eye related problems while doctors urged people to stay at home , the Associated Press reports . 
The air quality in Lahore deteriorated to hazardous levels , putting an additional burden on the fragile healthcare system amid a surge in coronavirus deaths and new infections . 
The Air Quality Index at one point rose to 750 in the city ’s poorer areas — about 12 times the recommended level . 
Earlier in the day , Switzerland based air quality information platform IQair declared Lahore the second most polluted city , after New Delhi , India ’s capital . 
Pollution indexes peak dramatically in Pakistan in winter , when farmers burn off stubble in the fields . 
Winds worsen the pollution by further spreading smog across the region . 
" The air quality level was hazardous today , " said Sajid Bashir , a spokesman for Environmental Protection Department . 
By mid day the situation had improved , he said , as authorities took steps to keep smoke emitting vehicles off the roads and shut brick kilns across the province of Punjab , where Lahore is the provincial capital . 
Lahore , once dubbed as the city of gardens , remained pollution free for months after March , when the government imposed a lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus . 
But the restriction was lifted in May , allowing a return to industrial activities and normal businesses . 
With cars back on the roads , the air quality gradually deteriorated , falling again to unhealthy levels . 
Pollution is no stranger to Pakistan , a country of 220 million — or Lahore , with some 12 million people . 
Cars are the top pollutants in Lahore but the city also has other sources of pollution , including the stubble burning , steel manufacturing furnaces and the city ’s famous brick kilns . 
" Coughing , throat infection and irritation in the eyes are common , " said Anza Farid , an environmental expert , warning that the situation could worsen in the coming weeks as more people burn garbage in the cities and farmers burn off the stubble in their fields . 
Dr Talha Ayub urged people to wear face masks for protection , both from pollution and the coronavirus . 
" People should try to stay at home if they can , " he appealed . 
Pakistan on Wednesday said it registered a further 21 Covid 19 deaths and 1,708 new infections over the past 24 hours — despite a government imposed partial lockdowns in 4,136 residential areas across the country . 
The government is turning to sealing off hotspots in a bid to contain rising fatalities and infections from coronavirus . 
Authorities also banned large gathering , shut shrines , cinemas and theatres to contain the spread of the virus , which has infected more than 348,000 people in Pakistan and killed 7,021 since February . 
