South Africa will open up travel to all countries in an effort to boost the tourism and hospitality sectors , the president Cyril Ramaphosa said on Wednesday , despite having the highest number of confirmed Covid 19 cases on the continent . 
Africa ’s most advanced economy , which has recorded more than 740,000 Covid 19 cases and over 20,000 deaths , has seen infections rise since it eased lockdown restrictions in September to their lowest levels . 
In a televised national address , Ramaphosa said normal trading hours of alcohol would be restored too , after sales were restricted on weekends in an effort to reduce pressure on hospitals due to alcohol related accidents . 
We are also opening up international travel to all countries subject to the necessary health protocols and the presentation of a negative Covid 19 certificate . 
By using rapid tests and strict monitoring we intend to limit the spread of the infection through importation . 
We expect that these measures will greatly assist businesses in the tourism and hospitality sectors . 
The president did not give further details , or a specific date for the reopening . 
A presidency spokesperson could not immediately be reached for comment . 
South Africa opened its borders to some international travellers at the beginning of October after a six month ban , but restricted entry from high risk countries , with the latest list including the United States , the United Kingdom , France , Russia , Brazil and India . 
The country depends heavily on tourism , which prior to the pandemic contributed nearly 9 % of its gross domestic product and employed over 4 % of the workforce . 
The economy was already in recession before the pandemic struck , and one of the world ’s strictest lockdowns has exacerbated its woes with millions of its citizens losing their jobs or being pushed deeper into poverty . 
Ramaphosa , however , warned of a potential resurgence in infections , saying the number of new cases in the Eastern Cape province was 50 % higher than the week before , with higher infection rates also seen in the Northern Cape and Western Cape regions . 
We have also seen in other countries how a resurgence can dash hopes for a swift economic recovery . 
