US states have responded to the threat of Covid 19 in jails and prisons with " gross negligence , " according to the ACLU and the Prison Policy Initiative . 
The organizations published a report Thursday on conditions for prisoners . 
As of June 22 , more than 570 incarcerated people in the US and more than 50 corrections officers have died due to Covid 19 , the report said . 
Jails and prisons have become hotspots for new cases . 
Early in the pandemic , experts warned states that the prison system could become " petri dishes " for Covid 19 . 
Good hand hygiene is difficult when sanitation in these jails and prisons is typically poor . 
Medical resources are scarce . 
Social distancing is not possible . 
There was an extra level of concern that when prisoners were released they would spread Covid 19 infections to vulnerable communities . 
This is an especially large threat to poor communities and , due to racial disparities in arrests and sentencing , to communities of color , the report said . 
Despite the warnings , the systems failed the incarcerated , the report concluded . 
The highest score any state received for managing Covid 19 cases was a D - . 
Only nine states achieved that grade : Oregon , Colorado , Minnesota , Michigan , Kentucky , Tennessee , West Virginia , Maine and Vermont . 
The majority got a failing grade . 
Some states did reduce their jail populations , but no state had " close to adequate " prison population reductions , even in areas where governors issued orders to lower those numbers quickly , the report added . 
The states earned these poor marks for failing to test people , and for failing to provide personal protective equipment for staff and the incarcerated . 
Just five states offered comprehensive testing in prisons : Michigan , Massachusetts , Tennessee , West Virginia and Vermont . 
New Mexico only tested staff . 
Alaska and North Dakota did not provide any personal protective equipment to the incarcerated , the report said . 
States were also slow to release prisoners to reduce the jail or state prison populations – even medically vulnerable prisoners , in some cases . 
In Arkansas , there was a 42 % median jail population reduction , but in Texas it was only 2 % , and in some states there was an increase in prisoners , the report found . 
Many states also failed to publish regularly updated data about cases in the prison system . 
