The US Centers for Disease Control and prevention has urged against Thanksgiving holiday travel this year as coronavirus cases continue to climb across the US . 
But what if — despite your best efforts to avoid air travel — it does become a necessity to fly ? 
Here are experts tips on how to reduce your risk of catching Covid 19 along your journey : Plan your transportation to the airport : If you have to take an Uber , Lyft or taxi to the airport , make sure you , your family and the driver are all masked throughout the journey — and be sure to roll down the windows to encourage air flow , according to Joseph Allen , who directs the Healthy Buildings program at the Harvard T.H . Chan School of Public Health . said . 
You can also drive yourself and the people in your " pod " to the airport and leave the car parked . 
Even then , Allen said , roll down the windows . 
Wear a proper mask , the proper way , for the entire journey : Wear a mask that covers your mouth and nose throughout your flight and stay seated as much as possible . 
" You want to have a minimum two ply mask , preferably a three ply mask , " said Allen , who has focused his career on " sick buildings " and how they affect worker performance and productivity . 
Consider a face shield : If you 're high risk , you might consider adding a face shield over the face mask , said Dr . Henry Wu , an associate professor of infectious diseases at Emory University School of Medicine in Atlanta . 
" We do not quite have the data yet to say how much additional protection it offers , " Wu said , " but it may have some additive value , particularly in terms of larger respiratory droplets directly getting into your eyes . " 
But do not rely on a shield alone , Wu cautioned : " Wearing a face shield does not negate the need to wear a face mask . " 
Carry the essentials : Along with that highly protective mask , you should definitely bring disinfecting wipes and a 3 ounce bottle of hand sanitizer with greater than 60 % ethanol or 70 % isopropyl alcohol . 
That 's the level needed to kill most coronaviruses , according to the CDC . 
Stay in your seat if you can : Getting up and moving around puts you closer to others on the plane , and visiting the bathroom opens up a whole new set of potentially germy things to touch . 
Try to prepare for that in advance , Henry Wu , an associate professor of infectious diseases at Emory University School of Medicine in Atlanta said , by " having your meals before the flight and doing your bathroom breaks on the layovers . " 
Quarantine upon arrival — both ways : " Do not rely on a negative test on the Tuesday before Thanksgiving and think that clears you to be with your family , " pediatrician Dr . David Rubin said . 
" Quarantining for a week and a half when you arrive is your best way to assure that you 're likely to be negative . " 
Read more about flying during a pandemic here . 
