Here ’s some experts views on yesterday ’s confirmation of the first coronavirus case in Africa , after a patient tested positive in Egypt . 
Prof Christl Donnelly , of the World Health Organization Collaborating Centre for Infectious Disease Modelling , Imperial College London , said : In our modern interconnected world , it is not surprising for imported Covid 19 cases to be detected in previously unaffected countries . 
It is encouraging that the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention ( Africa CDC ) are working with the World Health Organization and African member states to support diagnostic and surveillance capabilities . 
Dr Andrew Freedman , reader in infectious diseases and honorary consultant physician , Cardiff University School of Medicine , said : It was always inevitable that the virus would spread to the African continent . 
Indeed , there may well already be more cases in other African countries that have evaded detection . 
The concern is that it may prove impossible to contain the spread of Covid 19 in developing countries with less robust health systems ; this , in turn , could lead to wider global spread . " 
Prof Trudie Lang , director of the Global Health Network , Nuffield Department of Medicine , University of Oxford , said : The WHO declared this to be a PHE [ public health emergency ] because they wanted to support less well resourced nations in responding and preparing for cases . 
This first case in Africa is important but not unexpected . 
The patient is isolated and contacts found and tested ( all negative ) . 
The response of the Africa CDC shows the strong networks and collaboration that there is in place across Africa and these organisations are working now to train and prepare staff in order to maximise capabilities to detect and isolate cases . 
A key challenge is diagnostic capacity across much of Africa and here is where global support and research to find validated , inexpensive kits that can be used in the community is going to be critical . " 
Dr Michael Head , senior research fellow in global health at the University of Southampton , said : Cairo is the destination typically receiving the most visitors and workers from China , so it is unsurprising the first case on the African continent is seen in Egypt . 
There have been concerns about the impact of the coronavirus outbreak when it arrives in Africa . 
Therefore , it is reassuring that there has been some rapid contact tracing and all contacts have tested negative . 
This gives confidence that this might be an isolated case with minimal transmission . " 
