As President Trump touts progress amid the coronavirus pandemic at scripted , on message briefings this week , top members of the coronavirus task force are privately – and publicly – expressing concern about burgeoning outbreaks across the country . 
Dr . Anthony Fauci said Wednesday that the US is " certainly not at the end of the game , " with a series of baseball metaphors . 
And in audio obtained by journalism nonprofit Center for Public Integrity , coronavirus task force coordinator Dr . Deborah Birx privately told a group of state and local health officials about a concerning rise in cases in a series of cities , warning the officials to take mitigation action as soon as they see signs of percent positivity increasing . 
" There are cities that are lagging behind and we have new increases in Miami , New Orleans , Las Vegas , San Jose , St . Louis , Indianapolis , Minneapolis , Cleveland , Nashville , Pittsburgh , Columbus and Baltimore , so we ’re tracking this very closely . 
We ’re working with the state officials to make sure we ’re responding together , but when you first see that increased test positivity , that is when to start the mitigation efforts , " she said during the Wednesday call . 
Birx continued : " I know it may look small , and you may say that only went from five to five and a half , and we ’re going to wait and see what happens . 
If you wait another three to four , even five , days , you ’ll start to see a dramatic increase in cases . 
So finding and tracing those very early individuals is really critical . " 
Birx told the officials in places experiencing increased test positivity to " ( make ) sure they ’re being aggressive about mitigation efforts , " noting that the administration provides governors with a weekly report with clear recommendations for mitigation . 
One such report , also obtained by CPI last week , recommended that 18 states in the task force defined " red zone " for cases should roll back reopening measures amid surging cases . 
Those reports are not made publicly available . 
Birx told the officials there are " small glimmers of decreasing test positivity in many of our metros in Texas and of course in Phoenix , " but the task force has " deep concerns about specific metros , of course in Florida , and spreading epidemic in California into the Central Valley . " 
A White House spokesperson said Birx ’s comments were in line with Trump ’s briefing remarks on Wednesday . 
" This does not deviate from what the President said yesterday . 
The virus is still with us , we have some states and metros with significant outbreaks , and we must take this incredibly seriously , " deputy press secretary Judd Deere told CNN . 
But Trump cherry picked some of the more hopeful aspects of the pandemic in his briefings , and declined to appear alongside his top public health officials , telling reporters that appearing solo at the podium was a " very concise way of doing it . " 
