Admiral Brett Giroir , the head of US Covid 19 testing efforts , said Tuesday that the Trump administration will begin to send low cost antigen tests to states starting in mid September . 
This antigen test , called the Binax NOW Covid 19 Ag Card , uses a nasal swab and requires no instrument to read it . 
The test costs $ 5 a piece and Giroir said 48 million a month will be available in the United States . 
The administration , which purchased 150 million of the tests in a $ 760 million contract , will push the tests out in mid September . 
The tests will go to assisted living senior centers and home health staff , but the " overwhelming majority " will be sent to governors to support the opening of schools and daycares and to support first responders and people who work in critical jobs . 
They will also encourage the tests be sent to first responders and people who have been displaced by natural disasters like the wildfires out West and the hurricanes in Louisiana . 
It is authorized to be used on people doctors or nurses suspect may have Covid 19 within the first seven days that the person shows symptoms . 
Giroir said the tests have a " remarkable sensitivity and specificity " in this context of 97.1 % and 98.5 % respectively . 
It has a false negative rate of under 3 % . 
The tests pairs with a free , optional smartphone app that a doctor and patient can download that matches to a unique barcode on the test . 
The provider can record the result of the test in the app and the result can be automatically sent to the public health system that tracks test results . 
The tests can also be used to test asymptomatic individuals in congregate settings like nursing homes , schools and workplaces . 
Giroir , the assistant secretary for health at the US Department of Health and Human Services said his department , along with the US Food and Drug Administration and Abbott Labs , have been working on an inexpensive point of care test that " literally for months . " 
Antigen tests , which look for pieces of the virus , are not as reliable as traditional PCR tests that look for the virus ’ genetic material , but they are quicker and less expensive . 
PCR tests for Covid 19 have had significant problems with supply chain problems and backups at labs that have , in some cases , significantly delayed test results . 
