A National Institutes of Health panel says there ’s no evidence backing the use of convalescent plasma to treat coronavirus patients and says doctors should not treat it as a standard of care until more study has been done . 
" Convalescent plasma should not be considered standard of care for the treatment of patients with COVID 19 , " added the committee , which evaluates treatments for coronavirus . 
" Prospective , well controlled , adequately powered randomized trials are needed to determine whether convalescent plasma is effective and safe for the treatment of COVID 19 . 
Members of the public and health care providers are encouraged to participate in these prospective clinical trials . " 
Some background : Last week , the US Food and Drug Administration issued an emergency use authorization for convalescent plasma , and President Trump declared it a historic breakthrough at a news conference . 
The timing raised suspicions the White House had pressured FDA – something FDA Commissioner Dr . Stephen Hahn denied several times . 
But Hahn had also made misleading comments about the data supporting the use of convalescent plasma – which is the antibody rich serum taken from the blood of people who have recovered from an infection . 
The hope is infusing this plasma into new patients will kickstart their immune response . 
It ’s a treatment that dates back more than 100 years and has never been used broadly . 
The NIH panel , led by Dr . Clifford Lane , who heads research at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ; 
Dr . Roy Gulick , chief of the Division of Infectious Diseases at Weill Medical College of Cornell University ; and Dr . Henry Masur , chief of the Critical Care Medicine Department at NIH , said much more research is needed into whether the treatment works . 
Data published so far do not really show whether it helps patients , they said . 
" The long term risks of treatment with COVID 19 convalescent plasma and whether its use attenuates the immune response to SARS Co V 2 , making patients more susceptible to reinfection , have not been evaluated , " the statement added . 
Plus , different patients have differing levels of antibodies , so the treatment is highly variable . 
