A baffling condition called Multi Inflammatory Syndrome in Children ( MIS C ) started showing up in kids about three weeks after the peak of the coronavirus pandemic passed through , a team at a large New York health system reported Monday . 
The team at Northwell Health reported on 33 cases of the syndrome , which many doctors believe is some sort of delayed response to a coronavirus infection . 
All 33 children recovered with treatment , the team reported in the Journal of Pediatrics . 
Dr . Charles Schleien , who chairs the pediatrics department at Northwell ’s Cohen Children ’s Medical Center in New Hyde Park , said doctors were at first mystified by what was happening . 
The flow of affected children peaked about five weeks after Covid 19 hit New York City and the surrounding areas hard , Schleien and colleagues reported in the Journal of Pediatrics . 
" These are families I am sure thought they were off the hook , " Schleien said . 
Many showed up in shock , with plummeting blood pressure that required immediate treatment . 
" We treated these kids as they were coming in having no idea what it was , " Schleien added . 
As many other medical centers have reported , the symptoms at first looked like Kawasaki Disease , a rare syndrome that usually affects very young children . 
" We treated them as though they had Kawasaki Disease despite the age range , " Schleien said . 
The children with MIS C ranged in age from 2 to 17 . 
Almost all had gastrointestinal pain and diarrhea , the team reported . 
They also had clear evidence of inflammation as shown on blood tests , and 79 % of them required intensive care . 
All tested positive for coronavirus . 
Schleien said the team excluded a handful of other children who did not test positive . 
Other teams have reported that MIS C patients had no symptoms of infection before , but that most of them later tested positive for antibodies to coronavirus , indicating a past infection . 
All got treatment of some sort , including aspirin and intravenous immune globulin ( IVIG ) , a standard Kawasaki treatment . 
Some also got the antiviral remdesivir or strong anti inflammatory medications normally used to treat conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis . 
All recovered and Schleien said he does not know which treatments helped or hurt . 
Some may have heart damage . 
" They are all going to be seeing cardiologists for a while yet , " Schleien said . 
He said parents and pediatricians need to make sure that any children with lasting fevers and diarrhea get examined right away . 
