Anyone who ’s been near US President Donald Trump ’s top aide Hope Hicks for more than a few minutes should quarantine at home following her positive test for Covid 19 , a leading infectious disease expert said . 
Hicks traveled with Trump multiple times recently , including to the debate in Cleveland Tuesday . 
" Everyone who 's associated with Miss Hicks in the recent past should be quarantined at home and stay at home and not go out anywhere . 
That would be routine public health policy , " Vanderbilt University ’s Dr . William Schaffner told CNN ’s Chris Cuomo Thursday night . 
White House staff are routinely tested for Covid 19 . 
" This is another example where you can demonstrate that testing does not prevent infection , " Schaffner said . 
" They do a lot of testing in the White House , but you need to wear the mask . " 
Who is at risk : Some White House staffers who were working with Hicks were notified Thursday in a development first reported by Bloomberg News , but it ’s taken 24 hours for others , such as the media who cover the Trump administration , including flying to rallies and fundraisers , to learn of their potential exposure . 
The odds are that Trump might have been exposed , too : " If the President were a normal person , they would stay at home , their symptoms would be monitored , they would be tested periodically . 
You would be sure then to shelter him from others , so he does not potentially transmit this infection to others , " Schaffner said . 
Trump supporters and staff have not always been doing what they need to do to prevent transmission and attending rallies and having staffers around is " exactly the wrong thing to do , " said Schaffner . 
" This is not a political statement . 
The virus does not care . 
This is a simple public health statement , the virus will spread and I promise you , in these large rallies , the virus is there , it ’s contagious and it 's spreading , just as sure as the sun rises in the east and sets in the west , " he said . 
