Our Berlin correspondent Kate Connolly has just followed a press conference in Berlin headed by Angela Merkel , which followed hours of heated discussion between the leaders of Germany ’s 16 Länder at an emergency meeting over what steps Germany ’s biggest economy should be taking , after the number of people with coronavirus rose to 2695 and the number of dead , rose to six . 
Many Germans were glued to livestreams of the press conference , expecting and hoping to hear some decisive measures , such as the closure of schools and kindergartens across the country . 
What they got was a sense of urgency which we have not heard up until now . 
In short , the meeting ’s participants concluded that Germany is now in crisis mode , with a plan to be unrolled with immediate effect to restructure the country ’s hospitals in order to boost the number of intensive care beds ( currently there are 28,000 of them , 25,000 of which are equipped with respiratory apparatus ) . 
All non urgent operations are to be postponed . 
The state will offer financial help to the health insurance companies to ensure this happens , Merkel said . 
She appealed to Germans to restrict social contact as much as possible . 
She also advised on the cancellation of all gatherings which are not strictly necessary . 
She said the next " 4 , 5 weeks " would be " very very crucial in determining the question as to what happens next " . 
Markus Söder , premier of Bavaria and the leader of the Christian Social Union in Bavaria , admitted that the situation was " far more dramatic than we had thought even one or two weeks ago " . 
He said that the government ’s quick introduction of so called ‘ Kurzarbeit ’ - or work reduction policies introduced at the height of the banking crisis , which ensure workers receive their wages , and see employers compensated by the state " send an important signal to German businesses " . 
He coined a phrase used by Mario Draghi , president of the European Central Bank at the height of the Euro crisis , " we will do whatever it takes " . 
Although many Germans had hoped or expected they might do , the leaders did not decide on : - a universal policy on closing schools , kindergartens and universities , although Söder did announce this evening that Bavaria ( which currently has 500 people with coronavirus , and one death ) will do so from tomorrow , becoming the first state to do so . 
- Neither did it decide on the closure of German borders ( though it will control them including checking temperatures ) . 
- Neither did it decide to stop flights to and from Italy . 
