The novel coronavirus has destroyed lives and livelihoods in both the United States and China . 
But instead of bonding the two nations together to fight the pandemic , it has sent their already strained relations on a rapid downward spiral -- and fanned the flames of a potentially dangerous strain of nationalism . 
China has been criticized at home and abroad over its handling of the virus , especially during the initial outbreak . 
Pushing back such criticism with increasingly fierce rhetoric , Beijing says it is merely " responding " to false accusations , particularly from the US . 
In March , as the pandemic raged across the globe , Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian publicly promoted an unfounded conspiracy theory that the virus might have been brought to China by the US military . 
A few days later , US President Donald Trump called the coronavirus the " Chinese virus , " pinning the blame on China as the outbreak began to take hold in major American cities . 
Trump dropped the term a week later -- but the finger pointing did not stop there . 
In recent weeks , the Trump administration has repeatedly lashed out at China over its handling of the outbreak , questioning its death toll and criticizing its early response to the virus . 
Last week , Trump and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo claimed -- without providing evidence -- that the virus originated from a Chinese lab . 
Beijing pushed back in response , dubbing the claim a reelection tactic aimed at boosting Trump 's standing among Republican voters -- while China 's government controlled media attacked Pompeo with unusually vicious language , calling him " evil , " " insane " and an " enemy of mankind . " 
Yet the acrimony goes deeper than a mere war of words . 
The Trump administration is reportedly drawing up plans to punish China for the pandemic -- retaliation options include sanctions , canceling US debt obligations and drawing up new trade policies . 
Trump and several administration officials are also enlisting foreign allies to join the pressure campaign against China . 
Read the full story here . 
