An operation against mafia clans accused of being " ready to exploit the coronavirus crisis " has seen 91 people arrested in Sicily , Italy , on Tuesday , the Italian Financial Police and Prosecutor Salvatore De Luca told CNN . 
The 91 people that were arrested were ready to exploit businesses in need due to the coronavirus crisis , De Luca , who led the investigation told CNN . 
The anti mafia operation called " hands in the dough " also led to the seizure of real estate property worth about $ 16 million , the Financial Police said in a statement . 
Operations are still underway across the entire country . 
Around 500 policemen are involved in the search for drugs , weapons and cash , the Financial Police said . 
" The operation went on for three and a half years and the investigation will continue . 
It showed us that there was a series of classic illicit activities ; extortion , drugs , and then there are the more recent activities in the Cosa Nostra crime portfolio like slot machines and online gambling , luxury watches and coffee , " De Luca said . 
" There were significant arrests within the Aquasanta Family clan of the Cosa Nostra mafia , which is highly structured on family blood lines , " De Luca added . 
Regarding the seizure property , De Luca said , " This is just the tip of the iceberg . 
As always happens with very complex investigations , we are able to seize the majority of property , in part of companies and businesses , but this is representative of just a small part of the cash flow that the mafia moves . 
Often , cash disappears in foreign banks . " 
The prosecutor said he expects to see a " great merciless advance " from the Sicilian mafia when the market reopens . 
Italian Interior Minister Luciana Lamorgese thanked the judiciary and the police for the " brilliant " results . 
" The investigation confirms that the current delicate situation constitutes a scenario of strong interest for criminal partnerships that intend to seize the opportunity to exercise their influence and find consensus and to conquer large sectors of the legal economy , " Lamorgese said in a statement Tuesday . 
