The coronavirus has spread across the globe , reaching every continent except Antarctica . 
Here 's a look at the situation in each region of the world : Asia Pacific : The situation has calmed in China , where the pandemic began . 
The slowdown in cases has seen travel restrictions begin to lift , and even a visit to Wuhan -- ground zero for the outbreak -- by Chinese President Xi Jinping . 
Meanwhile in South Korea , cases also appear to be slowing down this week , but the country is not out of the woods just yet -- authorities just reported 50 cases tied to a single call center in Seoul . 
Australia is having a harder time , with cases reaching 100 today , after reporting no new cases for almost a month . 
Some 22 patients have recovered , and three have died . 
Mongolia also reported its first case today -- after months of no confirmed infections , despite being surrounded by virus hit countries . 
United States : Cases continue to rise in the US , with several states declaring states of emergency . 
Schools and universities are beginning to suspend classes or move them online , while big events like the annual South by Southwest conference have been canceled . 
Several congressmen are also under self quarantine after coming into contact with an infected patient , as tensions rise between state authorities and the Trump administration over its handling of the outbreak . 
Europe : The European outbreak appears to be worsening , with Italy at the heart of the crisis . 
The entire country is now under lockdown , with movement restricted , events canceled , schools shut , and public services suspended . 
A total of 97 people have died in Italy since Sunday , bringing the country 's death toll to 463 . 
Nearby countries are also feeling the impact ; 
Germany has reported significant spikes in daily new cases this week , as well as its first coronavirus death . 
France reported 286 cases on Monday -- including the minister of culture . 
Middle East : Iran remains the hardest hit of the Middle Eastern countries , with more than 7,000 cases -- including the head of the country 's Crisis Management Organization . 
Other Middle Eastern countries continue to report new cases , including Lebanon today . 
These countries are continuing emergency measures that were introduced in late February , such as closed borders and mandatory quarantines . 
