The latest figures from China do not show a " significant shift in the pattern of mortality or severity " of the coronavirus , the World Health Organization ’s Dr Michael Ryan has said . 
He explained that while China reported an extra 13,332 clinically confirmed cases in Hubei province today , these " relate to a period going back days and weeks " and have been retrospectively classified based on diagnosis by medical professionals while awaiting laboratory test confirmation . 
We ’re not dealing with a spike of cases of 14,000 in one day . 
This does not represent a significant change in the trajectory of the virus . 
It remains unclear whether the spike in deaths reported by China - an additional 254 fatalities - relate to these clinically confirmed cases or not . 
Ryan , the executive director of the WHO health emergencies programme , said that apart from the Diamond Princess cruise ship , which now has 218 confirmed cases , there has been no dramatic transmission outside China . 
" The iceberg may not be that great , but that ’s not a guarantee , " he added . 
The rest of a special WHO team is expected to arrive in China over the coming weekend to investigative the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak , he announced . 
When asked about the most urgent action need to tackle the epidemic , Ryan raised a few issues . 
He said the clinical trials in China should be expanded to countries such as Japan and Singapore , in order to better understand which treatments are effective . 
" Knowing which drugs work would be a wonderful gift , " he said , adding that antivirals used during the Sars and Mers epidemics are being trialled . 
Daily press conference on # COVID19 with @ Dr Mike Ryan . 
# coronavirus It is also important to identify the animal source of the disease to stop a similar outbreak happening in future , Ryan said . 
He said that while vaccines and new drugs will take a lot longer to produce , there is no time to be wasted in investment and development . 
He added that it will take hundreds of millions of dollars of investment in multiple drug candidates to find a solution , and states are going to have to support the private sector in this endeavour . 
Finally , he said " we need a vaccine against misinformation " to better inform the public about the disease and communicate in a more effective way . 
