Federal health officials on Friday green lit a point of care coronavirus test that can provide results in less than 15 minutes , using the same technology that powers some rapid flu tests . 
Teased by Vice President Mike Pence in a Thursday press briefing , the new diagnostic could accelerate testing in the United States , allowing for rapid results in doctors ’ offices . 
But shortages of critical equipment used to collect patient specimens , such as masks and swabs , could blunt its impact . 
The US Food and Drug Administration authorized the test for emergency use , signaling that federal regulators were satisfied with the test ’s validation data and believe its benefits outweigh any risks , such as false positives or negatives . 
The test ’s maker , Abbott , said it expects to deliver 50,000 tests per day beginning next week . 
The technology behind the test looks for genes that are present in the virus , similar to PCR tests already on the market . 
The platform used to run the test weighs less than 7 pounds , according to Abbott , and could be deployed " where testing is needed most , " such as at coronavirus hotspots . 
More on this : Last week , the FDA authorized another rapid test – one from molecular diagnostics company Cepheid , which provides results in about 45 minutes . 
Most laboratory tests for the coronavirus take anywhere from a few hours to days to receive results . 
All FDA authorized tests , however , require samples from patients – and health care facilities say they ’re facing shortages of critical supplies needed to collect specimens . 
The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Tuesday issued guidance allowing some patients to collect their own nasal swabs in health care facilities , which could reduce the amount of protective equipment needed for health care workers . 
But some jurisdictions , such as New York City , have said that patients with coronavirus like illness should stay home – saying that is " safer for the patients and health care workers " and does not change the treatment patients receive . 
