Two European patients , one in Belgium and one in the Netherlands , have been infected twice by the coronavirus , virologists say . 
Belgian virologist Marc Van Ranst told VRT News that a Belgian woman was infected first in mid March , then again in June . 
Her symptoms were mild enough to avoid hospitalization , he said . 
" We were able to genetically sequence the virus in the two cases , " Van Ranst said in a television interview on Monday night . 
" And there is indeed enough difference to be able to say that this is another strain , a second infection . " 
" Good news , it is not , " he said . 
" Because you hope of course that when you ’re infected , that you ’re then out of the danger zone for a long while . 
And hopefully that is so in most cases . 
At the very least , there appear now to be exceptions . " 
Meanwhile , a patient was infected twice in the Netherlands , virologist Marion Koopmans told NOS , the Dutch national broadcaster . 
Koopmans said it was an " older patient with a compromised immune system , " according to NOS . 
Koopmans confirmed to NOS that the RNA profiles of the two viruses that infected this patient differed . 
The news comes after a 33 year old man living in Hong Kong was reported to have had Covid 19 twice this year , according to preliminary research . 
The pre print study -- which the University of Hong Kong said on Monday has been accepted to publish in the journal Clinical Infectious Diseases -- found that the man ’s second case of Covid 19 occurred 142 days after the first . 
The study also noted that in the first case , the man showed symptoms but in the second case he was asymptomatic , in that he did not show any noticeable symptoms . 
The genetic analysis showed that the first infection was from a strain of the coronavirus most closely related to strains from the US or England , which were collected in the spring , and the second was most closely related to strains from Switzerland and England , which were collected in July and August . 
" This case illustrates that re infection can occur even just after a few months of recovery from the first infection . 
Our findings suggest that SARS Co V 2 may persist in humans as is the case for other common cold associated human coronaviruses , even if patients have acquired immunity via natural infection or via vaccination , " the researchers wrote in their study . 
The researchers called this the " first case " of re infection of Covid 19 in their paper , but other experts are calling for more research before naming this case truly the world ’s first . 
Hong Kong researchers say man got Covid 19 twice : 
