It 's 9:30 a.m . in New York and 2:30 p.m . in London , here is the latest on coronavirus cases and testing across the world : Expert blasts US coronavirus response : The United States ' response to the virus is not just lacking , it 's the " worst response of any major country , " director of the Harvard Global Institute of Health Dr . Ashish Jha said Monday . 
" We did not get here overnight . 
This has really been one mishap after another , " Jha said . 
" The single factor that really differentiates us from everybody else is denialism that has pervaded our entire approach . " 
New Covid 19 test could bring fast results : Saliva Direct , a test that does not require specialized supplies and can deliver results in less than three hours , could be available to the public in a matter of weeks , according to Anne Wyllie , an epidemiologist at Yale School of Public Health who was part of the team responsible for the protocol . 
Seoul monitors new cluster : Seoul is now experiencing the " early stages of massive recurrence " of the virus , South Korea 's Vice Health Minister Kim Ganglip said Tuesday . 
Seoul 's government reported a cluster of cases related to a church , with more than 450 people linked to the Sarang jeil church testing positive for the virus . 
This week could be the " critical turning point " of whether the city 's cluster becomes a nationwide epidemic , Kim added . 
Cases increase in Paris : The number of daily new Covid 19 cases in the Paris region has increased to six times what it was at the beginning of the month , the French health authority told CNN . 
Wuhan hosts massive water park party : Wuhan was ground zero in the coronavirus pandemic with the world 's first — and arguably strictest — lockdown . 
Now , the central Chinese city appears to have moved on from the virus , as thousands of revelers gathered in an open air water park over the weekend for an electronic music festival — without any masks or social distancing measures in sight . 
New Zealand 's prime minister hits back at Trump : New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern on Tuesday responded to President Trump 's comments calling the country 's surge in Covid 19 cases " terrible . " 
" I do not think there 's any comparison between New Zealand 's current cluster and the tens of thousands of cases that are being seen daily in the United States , " Ardern told reporters . 
" Obviously , every country is experiencing its own fight with Covid 19 ; it is a tricky virus , but not one where I would compare New Zealand 's current status to the United States . " 
With reporting from CNN 's Madeline Holcombe 
