" Miracle Larry " Kelly is home . 
After 128 days in the hospital — including 51 on a ventilator — the 64 year old New Yorker is a coronavirus survivor . 
" I was one of the early cases . 
And in many ways I was a Guinea pig because they knew nothing about it . 
So , they threw everything at me , " Kelly told CNN 's Brianna Keilar during a live interview . 
Kelly 's early prognosis was so grim that doctors suggested he be taken off of life support , and family members had begun to pay their last respects . 
But Kelly had other ideas . 
" The last text message I sent to my wife right before I was vented , I said I promise I 'll never stop fighting . 
I kept that promise , " he said . 
As Kelly battled for four months , fighting a virus that to date has claimed the lives of more than 140,000 Americans , one mid April Sunday offered a sliver of hope . 
" I open my eyes on Easter Sunday , which is why I believe the moniker ' Miracle Larry ' came from . 
But on Easter Sunday in New York , 527 people died , " said Kelly . 
" So people were dying all around me and I did not die . 
And is that a miracle ? 
I do not know . " 
Further hampering Kelly 's fight were complications including a coma , pneumonia in both lungs , and massive bleeding in the brain . 
There were " tubes everywhere , EEG ( electroencephalogram ) on his brain . 
He looked awful . 
My sister did not even want to see him like that , " Kelly 's daughter Jackie recalled . 
Family members took turns recording messages on a mobile phone , playing them in Kelly 's ear one by one inside his Mt . Sinai hospital room . 
Months later , the recordings have taken on a different tone . 
" Jackie actually played the phone conversations with the doctors that she had with her crying and them telling them all the gloom and doom , " Kelly said . 
" Jackie and Dawn were getting very upset and they looked over at me and I was not . 
And they were staring at me and I said to them ' well , I know how it ends . ' " Even with a contagious sense of humor , Kelly admits to grim days during his Covid 19 fight . 
" I was in a very dark place . 
And you know , I did not see any white light but I saw a lot of black and dark and a pit . 
And I thought I was heading the other direction , which is why I probably survived . 
I kept thinking let me explain myself . " 
With family by his side , Kelly credits not only those closest to him — but also those he 'd never met — for his remarkable story of survival . 
" There 's so many commercials on that say we 're all in this together . 
And that 's the only message I can give people . 
I was a stranger to those people at Mt . Sinai and they worked tirelessly to keep me alive , " Kelly said , before adding a word of caution to those still doubting the severity of Covid 19 . 
" This disease is no joke . 
And if there 's anybody out there thinking it 's a big hoax , I 'm so glad my family and a lot of my friends who know me , are following protocol because I do not want to lose any of them . " 
CORRECTION : This post has been updated to reflect that Larry Kelly spent 51 days on a ventilator in a hospital . 
