The genetic sequences of two coronavirus cases linked to the White House could ultimately help researchers identify the origins the White House outbreak -- and whether it went on to infect others , according to a preprint study posted online on Sunday . 
Following several Covid 19 cases linked to the White House in early October , including President Donald Trump 's , CNN reported that the administration rebuffed offers to help with contact tracing – one tool that could have tracked how the virus spread around and beyond the White House . 
In October , a White House spokesman called the origin of the cases there " unknowable . " 
The preprint study , which has not yet been peer reviewed or published in a medical journal , says that 's not necessarily the case . 
The study says the White House Covid 19 outbreak seems to descend from a viral lineage that " escaped detection " for the previous six months . 
The authors , led by geneticist Trevor Bedford , an associate professor at Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle , said the White House cases stemmed from viruses circulating in the United States in March and April , but can be differentiated by the mutation collected since then . 
The new study did not identify the individuals included , but a story published Sunday in The New York Times said the viral samples came from two of its journalists , Michael D . Shear and Al Drago , who are believed to have been exposed to the coronavirus while covering the White House . 
The Times said both had " significant , separate " exposure to officials in the White House in late September , and did not spend time around each other in the weeks before they tested positive . 
As many viral lineages have not been sequenced , there are not many answers yet about where the White House cases came from . 
As more genomes are sequenced , it ’s possible new evidence will emerge about the geographic origins of the White House lineage . 
The two sequences are like " having two puzzle pieces that connect to one another , but with nothing else to directly connect to , " the study says . 
The researchers say they ca not rule out the possibility that this version of the virus is circulating in Washington , DC , and both individuals in the study independently acquired it outside the White House . 
More genetic sequencing in Washington could rule it out . 
It would also help to sequence additional cases linked to the White House , the study said . 
