There are now 14 college football games that have been canceled or postponed this week due to Covid 19 . 
It 's the second straight week college football has lost double digit games on its schedule . 
The latest games to be called off are Texas at Kansas and University of Nevada , Las Vegas ( UNLV ) , at Colorado State . 
The University of Kansas announced today that Saturday 's game against the University of Texas has been rescheduled to Dec . 12 due to Kansas ' " inability to meet to meet the minimum position requirements , " which were established by the Big 12 conference . 
Before the season , the Big 12 conference announced , " football cancellation thresholds , " where the minimum number of players required to play in a game was 53 with other minimum requirements for specific position groups . 
The affected position group in the Kansas program has a combination of injuries and contact tracing . 
The school said in a statement that since Nov . 8 , the team has performed 825 Covid 19 tests , with five returning positive . 
The Jayhawks next scheduled game is on Nov . 28 against Texas Christian University in Lawrence , Kansas . 
The Mountain West Conference ( MWC ) also announced on Wednesday that UNLV will not travel to Colorado State for Saturday 's game due to positive cases within the UNLV program . 
" Over the past six weeks , more than 2,600 tests have been administered to UNLV football student athletes , coaches , and staff with a positivity rate of less than 0.6 percent , " UNLV director of athletics Desiree Reed Francois said . 
" Unfortunately , with a surge in cases in the Las Vegas community and despite the efforts of our student athletes , coaches , and staff to adhere to health and safety protocols , the decision to not play this weekend is in the best health and safety interests of all involved . " 
The 14 college football games affected this week so far are : Ohio at Miami University ( Ohio ) — Canceled University of Alabama at Birmingham at University of Texas at El Paso – Canceled Ole Miss at No . 
5 Texas A&M — Postponed Georgia Tech at No . 
12 Miami — Postponed Charlotte at No . 
15 Marshall — Postponed Arizona State at Colorado — Canceled University of Louisiana Monroe at Louisiana Tech — Canceled Wake Forest at Duke — Postponed Navy at South Florida — Postponed Houston at Southern Methodist University — Postponed Central Arkansas at Louisiana Lafayette — Canceled Utah State at Wyoming — Canceled Texas at Kansas — Postponed UNLV at Colorado State — Postponed 
