Arab countries are scrambling to prevent a COVID 19 outbreak in the crisis ridden region , taking sweeping measures to slow the spread of the virus , and trying to avoid an Iran like outbreak . 
Here 's what we know : Saudi Arabia : The government has partially shut shopping malls , banned eating and drinking inside restaurants and cafes , and closed public spaces . 
Apart from Saudi nationals , passengers who have transited through or have been in Bahrain , China , Taiwan , Djibouti , Egypt , Eritrea , Ethiopia , France , Germany , Hong Kong , India , Indonesia , Iran , Italy , Kenya , South Korea , Kuwait , Lebanon , Macau , Oman , Pakistan , Philippines , Somalia , South Sudan , Spain , Sri Lanka , Sudan , Syria , Turkey or the United Arab Emirates in the past 14 days are not allowed to enter . 
The United Arab Emirates : The country has suspended tourist visas and cultural activities , and the country has taken a series of measures to promote social distancing , including the closure of bars , clubs and lounges in the country ’s commercial hub , Dubai . 
Qatar : Only nationals are permitted entry into the country . 
The gas rich state is largely composed of expatriates , with Qataris making up a minority of the population . 
Kuwait : Last week , the country closed its borders after seeing a surge in reported cases that originated in Iran . 
Social media videos showed Kuwaiti mosque leaders urging believers to " pray at home " through megaphones . 
Lebanon : The government has announced a two week lockdown , banning public and private gatherings and closing all commercial companies , except for those that produce food . 
The country , which is also embroiled in its worst economic crisis since its civil war , has closed aerial , naval and land borders . 
Iraq : Authorities announced a six day curfew on Sunday , prompting people to throng supermarkets and stockpile on essential goods . 
The curfew is set to begin on late Tuesday . 
Egypt : The World Health Organization has praised the country ’s coronavirus response . 
Authorities have been " very well guided by the World Health Organization -- they practiced well in order to contain the clusters from the beginning of the occurrence . " 
Morocco : The country ’s foreign ministry announced on Sunday that it would suspend all international flights to and from its territory " until further notice . " 
That move has reportedly left a number of tourists stranded in the country , considered a global tourist hotspot . 
