Widespread reopening of schools after lockdowns and vacations is generally not linked to rising Covid 19 rates , a study of 191 countries has found , but lockdown closures will leave a 2020 " pandemic learning debt " of 300bn missed school days . 
The analysis , by the Geneva based independent educational foundation Insights for Education , said 84 % of those 300bn days would be lost by children in poorer countries , and warned that 711 million pupils were still out of school . 
" It ’s been assumed that opening schools will drive infections , and that closing schools will reduce transmission , but the reality is much more complex , " said If E ’s founder and chief executive Randa Grob Zakhary . 
The vast majority – 92 % – of countries that are through their first wave of Covid 19 infections have started to reopen school systems , even as some are seeing a second surge . 
If E found that 52 countries – including France and Spain – that sent students back to school in August and September saw infection rates rise during the vacation compared to when they were closed . 
In Britain and Hungary , however , infection levels dropped after initial school closures , remained low during the holidays , and began rising after reopening . 
Full analysis of these 52 countries found no firm correlation between school status and infections – pointing to a need to consider other factors , If E said . 
" The key now is to learn from those countries that are reopening effectively against a backdrop of rising infections , " Grob Zakhary said . 
The report said 44 countries have kept schools closed . 
It found countries are developing strategies for schools during the pandemic , such as in Italy and France , which order temporary school closures on a case by case basis . 
Other measures include policies on masks , class rotations and combining remote with in school lessons . 
Grob Zakhary said : This first real global test highlights what school life looks like in a Covid world . 
Understanding how countries undergoing a massive second wave are dealing with this new reality in the classroom is essential to guide future reopening decisions and to help schools remain open . 
