There ’s a blizzard of economic news and comment on coronavirus including Moody ’s revising downwards its forecast for car sales around the world from a drop of 0.9 % to - 2.5 % . 
The rating agency says the outbreak " reduces demand and disrupts automotive supply chains " . 
We expect global auto unit sales to decline 2.5 % in 2020 , narrowing from a 4.6 % drop in 2019 , but worsening from the 0.9 % decline that we had previously projected for this year . 
We expect sales to rebound only modestly in 2021 , with growth of 1.5 % . 
Our outlook on the sector remains negative . 
Coronavirus expected to slam 2020 global car sales . 
Download the app or click on to read this article from NBC . 
* Chinese car sales have Completely plunged Yo Y so far in 2020Global demand ( specifically in China - the world ’s marginal growth engine ) is anemic and getting weaker On the general market situation , Michael Mc Carthy , chief market strategist , CMC Markets and Stockbroking in Sydney , says the virus issue remains " at the heart of market concerns " . 
Stocks are still struggling but he rings the alarm on an apparent freeze in lending : The most concerning thing is the fact that credit markets froze . 
In very unusual trading there were no new corporate bonds issued in Europe or the USA . 
This last occurred on a non holiday in 2007 , just before the global peak in equity markets and the plunge that heralded the GFC . 
In Australia , BIS Oxford Economics have said that weak capex figures for the fourth quarter released on Thursday morning makes it more likely that the Reserve Bank will have to reduce rates or introduce some kind of monetary easing . 
The data confirm our view that capex growth this year will be soft , and is very likely to miss the RBA ’s forecast – as the survey was done in Q4 it does not include any additional drag from the coronavirus outbreak . 
We continue to expect further monetary easing , and the pressure will mount on the government to loosen policy in its May budget . 
Aust capex plans for 2020-21 are + 8.8 % on plans a yr ago for 2019-20 ( first chart ) due to a 28 % uplift in mining inv plans . 
Non mining plans remain weak ( second chart ) . 
Note this method looks to have been too optimistic for 2019-20 with plans + 11 % but actual capex running ~ + 2 %  
