The UK prime minister Boris Johnson said on Tuesday he would impose tougher lockdown restrictions on the Greater Manchester region in the north of England despite failing to reach a deal on funding support with local leaders . 
The UK - the worst hit European nation during the Covid 19 pandemic with nearly 44,000 related deaths - is now experiencing a second wave of the virus , recording 21,331 new cases and 241 deaths on Tuesday . 
Johnson is resisting pressure for a second national lockdown and is instead pursuing a localised strategy of imposing three tiers of increasingly stringent restrictions in virus hotspots in England . 
The plan has been resisted by leaders in the north , where tougher restrictions have been in place since July . 
In the end , the argument concerned the amount of money the government was willing to offer in financial support , which local leaders said was insufficient for the poorest in their communities to cope with the stricter restrictions . 
After ten days of tough and sometimes acrimonious negotiations , Johnson unilaterally imposed top tier restrictions - which include greater restrictions on household mixing , the forced closure of pubs which do not serve food , and an advisory not to travel in or out of the region - without the explicit agreement of local leaders . 
Johnson told a news conference the restrictions would take affect on Friday , he said that to wait any longer to act would put Manchester ’s NHS and residents at risk . 
Earlier , Manchester ’s Labour mayor Andy Burnham told a news conference that the government had failed to meet the minimum amount needed by the region to protect its poorest , and that it was ministers who had walked away from talks . 
At no point today , were we offered enough to protect the poorest people in our communities through the punishing reality of the winter to come . 
The city will receive £ 22m in support - around £ 8 per capita and significantly less than the £ 60m originally offered . 
It is understood that government and local leaders remain in negotiations for an additional support package . 
