Boston Mayor Marty Walsh said today the city 's Tuesday numbers show 38 new Covid 19 cases , bringing that total to 14,609 . 
There were two new deaths , for a total of 743 . 
Health officials in Boston have noticed a slight uptick , " but not an established trend , " in the percentage of positive tests , going from 2.1 % to 2.8 % , but the most recent seven day analysis brings the city 's average down to 2.5 % , he said . 
Emergency room visits are " not alarming increases yet , but we are seeing slight increases , " the mayor said . 
Walsh said the numbers " have not reached a level that would cause us to look at rolling back any of the openings that we 've already had here in the city of Boston . " 
He said that increased testing may partly explain the rise . 
The mayor also addressed the delay in deciding when to reopen Boston 's schools . 
While acknowledging parent and teacher angst regarding safety concerns and planning , Walsh said school leaders and facility professionals continue to monitor Covid 19 data , and to work with education and union leaders , while coming up with a complete plan . 
Walsh said the schools will not be starting with all in person learning . 
The mayor noted that his primary focus is on building equity between children of means and those in lower income situations , and bridging the learning gap therein . 
Asked how parents who work remotely can tend to children who are learning from home , Walsh said the city is going to be working with child care providers . 
" It 's complicated , " Walsh said . 
" We 'll have to make a decision fairly quickly , for parents to have that predictability . " 
" I hope that there will be in person learning this year , " he said . 
Boston school openings are currently scheduled for Sept . 10 . 
Note : These numbers were released by the Massachusetts Department of Public Health , and may not line up exactly in real time with CNN ’s database drawn from Johns Hopkins University and the Covid Tracking Project . 
