The daily United States Covid 19 death toll has surpassed 3,000 for the first time , prompting pleas for Americans to scale back Christmas plans even with vaccines on the cusp of winning regulatory approval . 
Covid 19 deaths reached 3,253 on Wednesday , pushing up the US total since the start of the pandemic to 289,740 . 
A record 106,219 people were hospitalised with the highly infectious disease , threatening to overwhelm many healthcare systems . 
Healthcare professionals and support staff , exhausted by demands of the pandemic , have been watching patients die alone as millions of Americans refuse to follow medical advice to wear masks and avoid crowds and smaller gatherings to contain the virus ’ spread . 
In California ’s San Joaquin Valley agricultural region , less than 2 % of intensive care unit ( ICU ) beds remain unoccupied , the California Department of Public Health said on Thursday . 
The number of available ICU beds continued to drop throughout the most populous U.S . state , with just 7.7 % availability in the heavily populated southern California region . 
Nursing home residents and staff have also felt the burden . 
" This is a pandemic that no one has ever experienced in our lifetimes , " Stephen Hanse , president of the New York State Health Facilities Association and the New York State Center for Assisted Living , told Reuters on Thursday . 
The one day death toll exceeded the number of lives lost on 9/11 , underscoring the human toll and the call for Americans to redouble efforts . 
" No Christmas parties . 
There is not a safe Christmas party in this country right now , " Dr . Michael Osterholm , a member of president elect Joe Biden ’s Covid 19 advisory board , told CNN on Thursday . 
It wo not end after that , but that is the period right now where we could have a surge upon a surge upon a surge . 
More than half of US states have recently introduced or resumed restrictions to try to curtail the rampant spread of the virus . 
On Thursday , Virginia ’s governor Ralph Northam imposed a midnight to 5 am curfew among other measures that will kick in on Monday and last through at least 31 January . 
" Case numbers have been rising for weeks , they ’re higher now than they ’ve ever been during this entire pandemic , Northam told a news briefing . 
Providing a ray of hope , a vaccine could start reaching healthcare workers , first responders and nursing home residents within days in what Hanse called " light at the end of the tunnel . " 
A panel of independent medical experts was due to decide later on Thursday whether to recommend that the US Food and Drug Administration authorise emergency use of a vaccine from Pfizer Inc and German partner Bio NTech SE . 
FDA consent could come as early as Friday or Saturday , followed by the first US injections on Sunday or Monday , Moncef Slaoui , chief adviser to the Trump administration ’s Operation Warp Speed vaccine development program , told Fox News . 
A second vaccine developed by Moderna Inc will be reviewed by the advisory panel next week . 
Biden , who succeeds Donald Trump on 20 January , has set a goal of vaccinating 100 million people within the first 100 days of his administration . 
