Influenza and possibly other viruses such as coronavirus can be carried on little particles of dust that float in the air , researchers reported Tuesday . 
Studies using guinea pigs showed the animals could infect one another via virus painted onto their fur . 
Plus , tissues soaked with virus and allowed to dry out could send off potentially infectious particles when they were crumpled , researchers from the University of California Davis and the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai reported in the journal Nature Communications . 
" These results show that dried inﬂuenza virus remains viable in the environment , on materials like paper tissues and on the bodies of living animals , long enough to be aerosolized on non respiratory dust particles that can transmit infection through the air to new mammalian hosts , " the team wrote . 
It 's known that viruses can spread in tiny droplets of saliva and mucus known as aerosols . 
They can also spread from surfaces in a process known as fomite transmission . 
The researchers say their findings that the viruses can sometimes spread on specks of floating fiber , animal dander and dust indicate a new method . 
" We call these virus contaminated dust particles ‘ aerosolized fomites , ’ to differentiate them not only from virus laden respiratory droplets that are exhaled , coughed , or sneezed into the air by an infectious person or animal , but also from the macroscopic virus contaminated objects that are traditionally thought of as fomites , " they wrote . 
" Transmission via dust opens up whole new areas of investigation and has profound implications for how we interpret laboratory experiments as well as epidemiological investigations of outbreaks . " 
Wider implications : The findings do not necessarily apply to humans , but the possibility should be tested , the researchers said . 
Plus , there are obvious implications for coronavirus , which , like flu , is a respiratory virus . 
" During the COVID 19 pandemic in China , air sampling in various hospital locations found the highest airborne genome counts of SARS Co V 2 in rooms where health care workers doffed their personal protective equipment , hinting that virus was possibly being aerosolized from contaminated clothing as it was removed , " they wrote . 
" In light of our experiments , we conclude that the contribution of aerosolized fomites to respiratory virus transmission in both humans and animal models requires further scientiﬁc consideration and rigorous investigation . " 
