At least three inmates in India have had their prison sentences suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic . 
But instead of lodging attendance at the police station in person , they will check in with their investigating officers over Whats App . 
According to Delhi High Court orders issued this week , the convicts in three separate cases will need to check in with their investigating officers via Whats App video call and send proof of location via Google Maps if the video call cannot take place . 
Once the interim suspension period is over , the convicts must surrender before the concerned jail superintendent , according to the order . 
One of the inmates who has been released is a 73 year old who was convicted under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act , and suffers from various medical conditions including diabetes and asthma . 
" The appellant is certainly in a medically vulnerable position in prison , " the order issued on April 20 read . 
The order cited " unprecedented circumstances of a medical health emergency " and the " need to decongest prisons for overall medical safety of all prisoners . " 
It granted the inmate an interim suspension of sentence for three months . 
Another inmate released is a 30 year old who had been sentenced to six months in prison for " rash driving , " which resulted in the death of a person riding on the back of a scooter . 
The man had filed a review petition for his sentence , but the date of his hearing was moved to July due to the lockdown . 
" He would have served almost the entire sentence by the time the revision petition is taken up , " the order stated . 
In a third order , a man who had completed nearly four years of his eight year sentence for poisoning others and committing a robbery was granted a 45 day suspension of his sentence . 
The people he poisoned did not die . 
He appealed his prison sentence , citing financial troubles in his family of three children and a wife who is a teacher but is out of work during the lockdown , according to the order . 
India has been in a nationwide lockdown which started at midnight on March 25 . 
It was set to end on April 14 but was extended to May 3 . 
