The novel coronavirus has infected more than 92,000 people worldwide , killing at least 3,200 . 
If you 're just waking up now , here are the key developments in the battle to contain its spread . 
Here 's the latest : Asia cases spike : The number of confirmed coronavirus cases continues to grow in Asia , with South Korea reporting another spike today that leaves it with over 5,600 infections . 
Mainland China recorded 119 new cases as of the end of Tuesday , with 115 in Hubei province , ground zero for the outbreak . 
Japan , Australia , Hong Kong , Malaysia and Singapore all reported new cases today . 
US cases rise : There are now 126 confirmed coronavirus cases in the United States . 
Nine patients have died -- all in Washington state . 
Medical equipment shortage : The WHO is warning of a global medical equipment shortage and estimates that about 89 million medical masks , 76 million examination gloves and 1.6 million goggles will be required globally for health care workers to respond to the outbreak . 
Planes grounded : Japan Airlines and All Nippon Airways announced they will reduce the number of domestic flights in Japan . 
Vietnam budget carrier Vietjet has suspended all flights between Vietnam and South Korea . 
Iran rolls out new measures : Iran , which is one of the worst affected countries in the world , is activating a 300,000 strong team of health workers . 
People trying to leave the city of Qom will be quarantined if they have symptoms . 
All clear for Chinese military : China has one of the biggest militaries in the world -- but none of its personnel have been infected with coronavirus , according to a senior member of the People 's Liberation Army . 
Bare shelves : Australia has only had 42 confirmed coronavirus cases , but that has not stopped worried shoppers buying up supplies , leaving supermarket shelves empty . 
Avoiding crowds : Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced today that he will be skipping a key event to mark the major Hindu festival of Holi . 
Meanwhile , South Korean President Moon Jae in has canceled his visits to the United Arab Emirates , Egypt and Turkey . 
Hong Kong evacuees on way home : Two chartered flights will evacuate Hong Kong residents from Hubei province today . 
