It is the morning after the Thanksgiving holiday in the United States , and the coronavirus pandemic continues to surge across the country and is showing no signs of slowing down . 
If you 're just reading in now , here are some of the latest Covid 19 trends and headlines in the US : On Thanksgiving , the US marked its 24th day in a row with more than 100,000 new cases . 
More than 1,200 deaths were also reported . 
The US currently averages 164,759 new Covid 19 cases per day , which is unchanged from last week . 
Hospitalizations Thursday hit a new high for the 17th consecutive day . 
According to the COVID Tracking Project , there are now more than 90,400 Covid 19 patients nationwide . 
The country 's death toll since the pandemic 's start is now more than 263,000 . 
And nearly another 60,000 could lose their lives over the next three weeks , according to an ensemble forecast published by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention this week . 
Gatherings that took place over Thanksgiving could further an already ferocious surge . 
Officials urged Americans this week to avoid travel and celebrate with immediate household members only . 
Many Americans listened , a poll showed this week , but millions of others have boarded planes across the country since last week . 
The FDA says starting Friday , the public can provide comment for their Covid 19 vaccine meeting . 
The US Food and Drug Administration has posted to Twitter more details about an upcoming meeting of its outside advisory committee to discuss Pfizer and Bio NTech 's emergency use authorization application for a coronavirus vaccine candidate . 
The Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee will meet on Dec . 10 . 
Only 1 in 8 US Covid 19 cases may have been counted . 
In total , more than 12.8 million Americans have tested positive for the virus since the pandemic 's start . 
But a new study suggests that could only be a small fraction of the true number of infections in the US.Only about one in eight — or 13 % — all of Covid 19 infections in the country were recognized and reported through the end of September , researchers at the CDC estimate . 
While the widespread effects of a vaccine are likely months away , Americans can still help turn the tide . 
The public safety measures that have been touted by officials for months — face masks , social distancing , avoiding crowds and practicing good hygiene like regular hand washing — are simple steps , but could make a world of a difference . 
More than 40,000 lives could be saved over the next two months if 95 % of Americans wore face masks , according to projections from the University of Washington 's Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation . 
Florida extended a ban on cities imposing mask mandates . 
Florida Gov . 
Ron De Santis extended an order this week that bans local municipalities from issuing fines for violations of pandemic related mandates — like mask mandates — or limiting restaurant capacity without justification . 
The extension is in stark contrast with other state leaders ' recent announcements of further restrictions and more enforcement . 
In Connecticut , Gov . 
Ned Lamont issued an executive order this week increasing the maximum fine for businesses violating Covid 19 orders to $ 10,000 . 
The previous maximum penalty was $ 500 . 
Here 's a look at where cases are rising compared to the previous week , according to Johns Hopkins University data : 
