The resurgence in coronavirus infections in states across the south and west is now moving into Midwestern states , Dr . Anthony Fauci , the head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , said Wednesday in an interview on MSNBC . 
In Florida , Texas , Arizona , California , an increase in the percentage of coronavirus tests coming back positive signaled a later resurgence , Fauci said . 
" We 're starting to see that in some of the states now , Kentucky , Tennessee , Ohio , Indiana and other states , " he added . 
Fauci said the White House coronavirus task force warned the governors in a conference call Tuesday that they need to get out ahead of the curve . 
" Because what we 're seeing now is what actually took place a couple of weeks ago and what we 're going to see a couple of weeks from now , is what we 're doing now , " he said . 
" And that 's one of the things that 's kind of tough to comprehend , that you look around you and it looks like you 're doing okay but if you 're not getting your arms around and suppressing that surge that 's coming up , that 's just a little bit below the radar screen , before you know it , two to three weeks down the pike , you 're in trouble . " 
The states experiencing a resurgence need to take a look at the reopening guidelines , Fauci said , emphasizing the need to adhere to a phased reopening . 
" Not all the states did that and even in the states that did , some of the people in the states did not listen to what the suggestions in the guidelines were . 
So , what we 're dealing with now is we want to make sure that as we start seeing these surges , you may need to go back a little , " he said . 
Fauci said he did not believe moving back to a complete shutdown is necessary . 
" I think psychologically that would be really very difficult for people to accept but what we can do is , if you 're going to quickly call a pause , a timeout and think maybe you want to backtrack a little , not necessarily all the way back to shut down , but enough to regain your footing , so that you then proceed to open in a much more cautious fashion . " 
