Tunisian authorities will impose a curfew in the capital Tunis to slow a surge in coronavirus cases , months after stopping stemming the spread of the virus with an expensive lockdown that the government says it cannot afford to repeat . 
The governors of four provinces that make up greater Tunis said in a statement broadcast on state TV that there would be a curfew between 9pm and 5am and a suspension of Friday prayers in mosques . 
The curfew will take effect from Thursday . 
State TV said the curfew would start at 7pm on weekends . 
" The decision has come too late but it will help us break the rise in cases , " Imed Souissi , a fruit seller , told Reuters . 
Tunisia entirely shut down its economy in March and closed its borders , limiting the spread of coronavirus to a few hundred confirmed cases . 
But it has now racked up more than 20,000 over the past month , with only 200 intensive care beds designated for Covid 19 available in the whole country . 
Elyes Fakhfakh , who stepped down as prime minister last month after denying allegations of a business conflict of interest , has announced he has tested positive , as has the leader of a major party , Abir Moussi . 
Many Tunisians say the authorities should have done more to prepare with the time secured by the economic hardship of the lockdown . 
" The Tunisian political class lost its opportunity to be ready for a second wave . 
What did they do to prepare over the past months ? 
Nothing . 
They were just focused on their usual disputes , " said Chaker ben Hussein , a baker in the Iben Khaldoun district of Tunis . 
Even before the pandemic , Tunisia was grappling to reverse a decade of sluggish growth , high unemployment , declining public services and concerning levels of sovereign debt . 
The economy contracted by 21 % in the second quarter as unemployment rose by 3 points to 18 % , with expectations it will exceed 20 % by the end of the year . 
The government has said the crisis has cost it 6 billion dinars ( $ 2.2 billion ) so far . 
A political crisis has rumbled since an election last year , with the fragmented parliament taking months to produce a government in January that lasted just eight months . 
The new government , of which Hichem Mechichi is the new prime minister , is also seen as fragile and has rejected another lockdown . 
