The US response to Covid 19 ranks near the bottom of the list of countries assessed by Foreign Policy Magazine . 
The magazine ’s Covid 19 Global Response Index puts the US among the six worst performing countries in the world , alongside Turkey , Iran , Mexico and Indonesia . 
China ranked last , in part , for its failure to report reliable test data , its minimal financial response , and its failure to communicate clearly and honestly with the public . 
But , the US got the lowest score for " fact based communication . " 
Foreign Policy described the US government as " relatively weak " in this category , as " it has engaged in misinformation as much as any country in the Index . " 
Best on the list is New Zealand with a perfect score . 
Senegal came in second . 
How the scoring works : The index assesses 36 countries for pandemic performance based on its public health and financial response , along with how well the country ’s leaders communicate using facts and science . 
The US came in at 31 . 
Countries that scored higher in the index generally have a lower death and case rate and a lower number of positive test results . 
Countries that reacted quickly and had a targeted response tended to have better outcomes , the index showed . 
The magazine singles out President Trump specifically for " amplifying misinformation and conspiracy theories about the virus . " 
It highlights his remarks during the July 4 celebration in which he claimed 99 % of the cases are " harmless . " 
The US also got low marks for its lack of testing and for how little it has spent on emergency healthcare , compared to other countries . 
The US ’s financial response to the pandemic was just above the median . 
That score may not tell the whole story though , according to one of the authors of the index , Fouad Pervez . 
Just because the US has an unemployment system , does not mean families can access that money , Pervez said . 
" Versus in a European country where they have the same policy , but the mechanism , it works , and people do not lose their jobs or benefits , they just get less salary , but they get enough salary that they can put food on the table , " Pervez said . 
Pervez is the senior quantitative and policy analyst on the project . 
