Five former directors of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) criticized the contradictory messages put out by President Donald Trump 's administration Thursday . 
Here 's what some of them said : Dr . Thomas Frieden said that the CDC had been sidelined early on in the pandemic and described Trump ’s contradictory messages as " chaotic leadership , " which has led to partisanship , confusion and increased spread of the virus . 
Dr . Jeffrey Koplan said that " every one of those falsehoods " damages the nation 's mitigation efforts against the virus . 
Frieden added that Americans want information from the CDC . 
" Americans are voting with their clicks . 
There have been 1.6 billion clicks on the CDC website , " said Frieden . 
" The more we learn , the more we know , the better we can control it . " 
Dr . Richard Besser said the federal response to the pandemic has been " absolutely unacceptable " considering the US is the wealthiest nation on the planet . 
He also criticized politicians for viewing CDC guidelines as an obstacle . 
" If you have politicians saying that CDC guidance is a barrier to getting children back into school , instead of the roadmap for doing it safely , the whole system breaks down , " said Besser , who was an acting CDC chief during the H1N1 swine flu pandemic in 2009 . 
Dr . Julie Gerberding , who headed the CDC under former president George W . Bush , said she hopes that the government can learn from this crisis . 
" I really do hope that finally it 's gotten so bad that we will reinvent how we think about our health security in the context of our national security , " Dr . David Satcher , a former US Surgeon General who headed the CDC under former president Bill Clinton , said communities of color that have been hit harder by the pandemic are going to require particular attention during recovery efforts " It 's going to say a lot about us as a nation , whether we step up to this challenge , and remove many of the structural barriers to health that people in this country face , " he said . 
CORRECTION : An earlier version of this story misattributed Dr . Thomas Frieden 's remarks to Dr . Jeffrey Koplan . 
Frieden said that Americans want information from the CDC , and " Americans are voting with their clicks . 
There have been 1.6 billion clicks on the CDC website . 
The more we learn , the more we know , the better we can control it . " 
