A British couple diagnosed with coronavirus after spending two weeks in quarantine onboard the Princess Diamond have contracted pneumonia . 
The family of David and Sally Abel , from Northamptonshire , said they had been moved to a " prison"-like hospital . 
The couple were on the cruise for their 50th wedding anniversary when it was placed in quarantine . 
Mr Abel has now been diagnosed with acute pneumonia , while his wife has mild pneumonia . 
Although they were originally in a hospital just 90 minutes from the coronavirus stricken cruise ship , Mrs Abel called her son in the middle of the night to say the couple were suddenly being moved to a different " three star " hospital . 
It took seven hours for the family to track down which hospital they had been taken to . 
Princess Cruises have sent the Abels a mobile phone that can make calls to their family . 
Steve Abel , their son , posted video updates on the couple ’s You Tube channel alongside his wife Roberta on Friday night and Saturday morning . 
Speaking on Friday evening , he said : They are in a really bad way . 
Dad is very weak . 
He ca not walk around – he ’s in a wheelchair now . 
I have not seen him in a wheelchair , but mum tells me he has to be put in a wheelchair to go from the ambulance to the hospital . 
They are really distressed . 
His exact words to me were , ‘ this has to stop now , we ca not take any more of this . 
It ’s like a prison . ’ " He said his parents were left in a hospital room that has no shower or bathing facilities , and were only provided with basic paper towels : They have not eaten properly . 
Neither of them can eat the food . 
They do not know what ’s happening , they have not had any treatments . 
They have been told they wo not get any treatments , but have been told they will see if they test negative for the coronavirus in two or three days and if they test negative twice they can go – but that does not treat the pneumonia , which is what we are so worried about . 
On Saturday morning he posted a second update and said : They have spoken to a doctor who can liaise with them a bit better . 
That is really reassuring and has done a lot for their mental wellbeing . 
They are brighter today and seem a lot happier , but they are still in the same situation . 
The family have said they are willing to fly out to Japan to bring the couple home . 
Roberta Abel said : " We are in fight mode now , we just want them back . " 
She criticised the reaction of the Foreign Office , and said their response had been " next to useless " . 
She said in an update on Saturday morning : " We do not believe they are in the best possible place like the Foreign Office are telling people . " 
A spokesman for the Foreign Office said : " The welfare of all British nationals is of the highest priority to the UK government . 
We are working with the Japanese authorities to ensure those British nationals who are remaining in Japan for health reasons get the best care possible . " 
