The novel coronavirus pandemic continues to batter much of the world , with total global cases past 1.27 million . 
The US now has more than four times China 's total cases , and is the worst hit country . 
This is how the pandemic looks around the world : Chaos in the US : The US has more than 337,000 cases , with New York at the epicenter . 
Most of the country is under movement restrictions , with people ordered to stay at home except for essential reasons . 
Emergency personnel and medical staff have spoken of insufficient resources , war like conditions , exhaustion and fear . 
In one New York hospital , six patients went into cardiac arrest and four died within 40 minutes . 
China returns to normal life : The past few weeks have seen the rate of new daily cases drop dramatically in mainland China , according to government figures . 
Yesterday , China reported 39 new cases nationwide and just one death -- a striking contrast to the thousands of new cases reported each day during the peak in February . 
Restrictions are now lifting and people are returning to normal life ; photos this weekend show hikers crammed onto a famous mountain . 
Controversy in Japan : The daily count of new coronavirus cases in Japan has doubled in the past week . 
Many have criticized the government 's handling of the crisis : the Prime Minister has repeatedly refused to declare a state of emergency or lock down Tokyo , and patients have had difficulty getting tested . 
To make things worse , people are reluctant to work from home , continue to gather outside , and are commuting during rush hours . 
Slowdown in parts of Europe : Spain , Italy , Germany , and France are the four countries with the highest number of cases after the US . 
But evidence suggests the worst may have passed for some of these places ; yesterday Spain saw the lowest rise in deaths since early March . 
Meanwhile , the mood in the UK is grim , with Prime Minister Boris Johnson admitted to hospital and the Queen giving a rare national address . 
Cases spike in Iran : Iran , which became the epicenter of the Middle East outbreak in March , is still seeing high numbers -- 2,483 new cases in 24 hours were reported yesterday . 
Despite this , the President said yesterday that foreign media " exaggerate the issue , " and that some restrictions will be lifted this week , allowing " low risk businesses " to return to work . 
