Though Congress has passed a $ 900 billion Covid 19 relief package , millions of Americans are in danger of losing important benefits just after the holidays if President Trump continues to refuse to sign the bill . 
The legislation would extend two pandemic unemployment programs and provide the jobless with a $ 300 weekly federal boost through mid March . 
It would send direct payments of up $ 600 per person . 
It would reopen the Paycheck Protection Program so that some of the hardest hit small businesses can apply for a second loan . 
The package , which would be the second largest relief deal after the $ 2 trillion CARES Act that Congress approved in March , also would extend eviction protection and enhance food stamp benefits . 
These are some of the programs that are at risk if the bill is not signed : Expanded unemployment benefits : More than 12 million laid off Americans could lose their unemployment benefits after this weekend if Trump does not sign the bill . 
And even if he does , they would likely suffer a break in payments of several weeks . 
As part of the historic broadening of jobless benefits under the CARES Act , lawmakers created three programs to help out of work Americans . 
While the $ 600 payment enhancement lasted only through July , the other two expire just after Christmas . 
Eviction protection : A Centers for Disease Control and Prevention order that went into effect in September temporarily halted evictions through the end of the year . 
The order , which was spurred by an executive measure Trump signed over the summer , applies to renters who meet certain income requirements , have experienced significant losses of income and have made their best efforts to find rental assistance and pay their rent . 
Since the order does not cancel or freeze rent , all of a tenant 's back rent will be due January 1 if the moratorium is allowed to expire . 
Without rent relief or an extension of the protection , many struggling renters will again face eviction . 
Coronavirus relief funds for states : Congress provided $ 150 billion to state and local governments to help them cover coronavirus related expenses . 
But states have to use those funds by Dec . 30 . 
States are on track to expend all the funds by the deadline , according to a National Governors Association survey of 42 states and territories . 
Most of the money has been used for health related expenses , economic relief , education and child care , and government expenses . 
The package would give states and localities an additional year to spend the money . 
