A second round of stimulus payments that was included in a coronavirus relief package passed by Congress Monday night is now at risk if President Trump does not sign the bill . 
The deal provided for $ 600 checks but the President indicated on Tuesday he would like that amount increased to $ 2,000 per person . 
House Republicans , however , on Thursday blocked Democrats from increasing the amount — leaving the entire package in jeopardy . 
Democrats have seized on Trump 's surprise objections to the bill in a bid to push Republicans to accept a higher amount for the stimulus checks — and Republican lawmakers are now in a difficult spot where they will be forced to decide whether or not they will defy the President . 
Democrats vowed their effort is not over , promising to move to pass a bill to increase the stimulus checks to $ 2,000 with a full up or down vote on the House floor on Dec . 28 . 
Here are key things to know about the Covid 19 stimulus checks : Who gets the money fastest : The payments do not go all out at once . 
Those whose bank information is on file with the IRS will likely get the money first because it will be directly deposited into their account . 
Others will receive paper checks or prepaid debit cards in the mail . 
About 90 million people — more than half of those eligible — received their payments within the first three weeks of April after the March deal was signed . 
Most people had their money within two months . 
Still , about 12 million eligible Americans were at risk of not getting the money at all because the IRS had no way to reach them . 
While most people received the money automatically , very low income people who do not normally file tax returns had to register online before November 21 to provide their address or bank account number . 
IRS under pressure : If Congress keeps the eligibility requirements the same as they were for the first round of checks , the process may be nearly as easy as hitting a button . 
But it could complicate things if the parameters are changed — especially if Congress adds restrictions aside from income . 
Additional checks may delay the start of the 2020 tax filing season . 
A second stimulus check means the agency will have to make changes to the tax return forms , some of which have already been sent to the printers . 
Some background : In March , Congress provided individuals with $ 1,200 direct payments and couples with $ 2,400 plus $ 500 per child under the $ 2 trillion CARES Act . 
As with that first round , the $ 600 payments included in the current legislation would start phasing out for individuals with adjusted gross incomes of more than $ 75,000 , and those making more than $ 99,000 wo not receive anything . 
The income thresholds would be doubled for couples . 
Read more about the Covid 19 stimulus negotiations here . 
CNN 's Suzanne Malveaux , Phil Mattingly , Clare Foran and Kristin Wilson contributed reporting to this post . 
