Researchers in the UK say they have seen an " unprecedented cluster " of eight children with rare inflammatory problems amid the coronavirus pandemic . 
The cases , they said , bear resemblance to a severe form of Kawasaki disease – a rare condition that causes inflammation in the walls of the arteries and can limit blood flow to the heart . 
All of the children were previously fit and well , the researchers said in a study published Wednesday . 
Five of the children received mechanical ventilation through a tube in their windpipes , and one was put on an ECMO machine – a device that takes over for the heart and lungs . 
Seven of the children survived , and one died from a stroke . 
Four of the children had known exposure to coronavirus , and two eventually tested positive . 
Six of the children were of Afro Caribbean descent , and five were boys . 
In the study , published in the medical journal The Lancet , the researchers said the case cluster formed the basis of a national alert . 
In late April , Britain ’s National Health Service sent an " urgent alert " to doctors saying they had seen cases of atypical Kawasaki disease that could be linked to coronavirus . 
As their study went to press , the researchers said they had treated more than 20 children with similar signs . 
The first 10 of these children tested positive for coronavirus antibodies – including the eight who made up the original " cluster " of cases . 
That suggests they had been exposed to the virus in the past , even if their diagnostic test came back negative at the time . 
Separately , the New York State Department of Health issued an advisory to healthcare providers about a similar syndrome . 
The state said that as of May 5 , it had received 64 potential cases of the condition , called Pediatric Multi System Inflammatory Syndrome Associated with COVID 19 . 
" The inflammatory syndrome has features which overlap with Kawasaki disease and toxic shock syndrome and may occur days to weeks after acute COVID 19 illness . 
It can include persistent fever , abdominal symptoms , rash , and even cardiovascular symptoms requiring intensive care , " the New York health department said in a statement . 
