Many states are enforcing drastic restrictions as a surge of coronavirus infections and hospitalizations see the pressure mount . 
There have now been at least 10,713,452 cases of coronavirus in the United States and at least 244,207 people have died So far today , Johns Hopkins has reported 160,631 new cases and 1,306 reported deaths . 
Illinois The Illinois Department of Public Health Friday reported a staggering 15,415 new cases of Covid 19 , shattering previous daily case counts . 
There are also 5,362 people in the hospital , the highest number on record , according to an IDPH news release , with 27 new deaths . 
There have been over half a million cases of Covid 19 in the state and more than 10,000 people have died so far , according to the statement . 
Illinois is currently running a 14.5 % seven day positivity rate . 
Vermont Vermont Gov . 
Phil Scott announced Friday that starting Saturday at 10 p.m . , gatherings of households are banned due to " alarming case growth . " 
He said that bars and clubs must close by 10 p.m . , and restaurants can only do takeout after 10 p.m . 
All youth recreational sports will be banned for the time being . 
Scott said while there will be no enforcement of the ban on multi household gatherings , he hopes that residents will abide by an honor system . 
He said that many outbreaks are being traced back to gatherings like parties or Halloween celebrations . 
The gathering ban will not apply to religious services , he said . 
The restrictions come as the governor announced an additional 84 new Covid 19 cases yesterday , which compares to an average of 25 cases per day last week . 
Arkansas Arkansas Gov . 
Asa Hutchinson announced on Friday the creation of a Winter Covid 19 Task Force as the state recorded a record 2,312 cases in 24 hours . 
Hutchinson said at a news conference that this was because the winter months are expected to pose particular challenges for the state . 
He said the state is also seeing a record surge of hospitalizations , at 826 . 
Nebraska Nebraska Gov . 
Pete Ricketts said rising numbers of hospitalizations have triggered new statewide restrictions . 
The governor said 905 people were hospitalized with Covid 19 , which is over 20 % of the state ’s hospital capacity . 
ICU capacity is at 27 % and ventilator capacity is at 70 % . 
" This is a very serious situation for our hospitals , " said Ricketts . 
The new restrictions including limiting elective surgeries , six feet of separation in gyms , bars and restaurants and a mask requirement for close contact businesses . 
Ricketts said he chose not to mandate masks because , " I am in favor of educating people . " 
Louisiana Louisiana topped 200,000 cases , reporting 3,492 new Covid 19 cases Friday for a total of 201,981 cases in the state , according to a tweet from the Department of Health . 
The new cases show an increase in all regions of the state as well as all age groups , another tweet said . 
The largest increase of cases are in those ages 18 to 29 , a 25 % increase , and those living in the Acadiana region , a 21 % increase , the tweet said . 
New York New York Gov . 
Andrew Cuomo announced during a news conference that he and six other northeast governors will have an emergency summit this weekend to discuss potential new Covid 19 restrictions . 
" We believe we are going to have to take additional steps and the extent we can share information and align action , we will do that , " Cuomo said . 
Cuomo used the rules for flying into New York state and the requirement to show a negative test as an example of what could be discussed at the meeting . 
" If you do not like the policy in New York , you can fly into Connecticut . " 
Cuomo said . 
Track the spread of the virus in the US : 
