Mainland China recorded 39 new cases of coronavirus on Thursday -- all imported from overseas , according to the country 's National Health Commission . 
It 's the second day that China reported no increase in domestically transmitted coronavirus cases . 
That 's a pivotal moment for the country where the virus was first detected at the end of 2019 . 
But it 's also raising concerns that another outbreak from imported cases is just around the corner . 
What is a second surge ? 
It 's essentially a " second wave " of infections or an outbreak that 's come from infected people who have arrived in the country from overseas , after efforts to control an initial outbreak . 
Why is it a problem ? 
Countries such as China , South Korea , and Singapore have seen caseloads stabilize in recent weeks , thanks largely to a combination of aggressive containment and social distancing measures . 
Tens of millions of people in mainland China and elsewhere in Asia were subjected to varying restrictions , with people unable to leave their homes or housing compounds , or go to work or school . 
A rise in infections linked to overseas travel has led to concerns that those sacrifices could be undone . 
Is there evidence it is happening ? 
Singapore confirmed 47 additional novel coronavirus cases on Wednesday -- the largest single day increase in confirmed cases . 
The same day , Hong Kong reported its largest increase in new cases following a period when few infections were reported . 
Thirteen of the 14 new cases reported had recent travel history abroad . 
While the increase in numbers is not on the scale that some countries in Europe are reporting , the sudden jumps are a concerning trend . 
What 's been done about it ? 
In mainland China , authorities have escalated quarantine measures on international arrivals to avoid further outbreaks . 
In the capital , Beijing , all passengers arriving from overseas are now required to go into " collective quarantine at designated facilities . " 
Beijing residents were previously allowed to quarantine themselves in their own homes . 
Singapore is requiring all travelers arriving in the country to undergo a mandatory 14 day home quarantine and has advised its citizens to defer all travel abroad . 
Hong Kong has issued a red notice for all foreign countries , requiring anyone arriving from overseas to undergo a 14 day home quarantine . 
