A Madrid court struck down a government order imposing a partial coronavirus lockdown on the Spanish capital , ruling in favour of the Madrid region in a standoff with national authorities just before a long holiday weekend , Reuters reports . 
Under the health ministry ’s order , Madrid regional authorities on Friday barred residents from leaving the area , including nine satellite towns , without a valid reason , and imposed other measures to curb the spread of Covid 19 in one of Europe ’s worst virus hotspots . 
Regional government chief Isabel Díaz Ayuso had opposed the order , saying it would ravage the economy , also arguing the ministry had no power to impose such curbs on a region . 
The Madrid regional court sided with her in its ruling , calling the restrictions an " interference by public authorities in citizens ’ fundamental rights without the legal mandate to support it " . 
The restrictions imposed in Madrid , with its usually bustling restaurants and bars , had not yet been fully enforced as no fines could be levied on people violating the restrictions until the court had issued its decision . 
The government can appeal . 
Welcoming the court ’s decision , Ayuso nevertheless urged Madrilenos to stay home over the upcoming Hispanic Day weekend that usually sparks mass holiday travel across Spain . 
She promised to release a set of " sensible , fair and balanced " rules on Friday , meaning capital residents may still face more restrictions in a country where the government forecasts GDP will fall 11.2 % in 2020 . 
During a televised address , she said : Madrid ’s businesses ca not carry on like this ... 
Nobody understands the rules , nobody knows what is going on . 
Under the law , the Spanish government can limit fundamental rights by imposing a state of emergency , as it did nationwide for three months starting in March , but it is up to the regions , which control health policy , to request such measures on a more local scale outside of an emergency . 
The Spanish prime minister , Pedro Sánchez , who described the situation in Madrid as " concerning " , told reporters in Algeria his government would study the court ruling and decide how to proceed after a meeting with the Madrid authorities . 
The region had 741 coronavirus cases per 100,000 people in the two weeks to 7 October , according to the World Health Organization , making it Europe ’s second densest Covid 19 cluster after Andorra . 
Spain reported 12,423 new coronavirus cases on Thursday , bringing the national tally up to 848,324 , the highest in western Europe . 
Reported deaths rose by 126 to 32,688 . 
