CNN has obtained 22 state reports from the White House coronavirus task force this week . 
The reports show , as CNN has reported all week , a cumulative worsening of cases across the country . 
The task force is warning of surging cases in the Sun Belt , Midwest and Northern states in several reports : New this week : the reports now show charts with hospital admission data . 
Next week , the reports say , there will be personal protective equipment data . 
There are at least 31 states in the task force defined " red zone " for cases . 
Here are some state specific findings : Vermont , still in the yellow zone , is the state with the lowest new case rate in the nation . 
There was a cluster of cases " among participants of recreational hockey and broomball leagues . " 
There is " cause for concern given the recent uptick in the state , " the task force warned , calling for increasing " public education about social distancing . " 
North Dakota has the highest rate of new cases in the country . 
" There is no substantial improvement in North Dakota . 
There must be increased mitigation , " the report said . 
The task force is sounding the alarm on " early deterioration " in gains against the virus in Alabama and said it " must be addressed aggressively as the spread is very broad based in rural and urban areas . " 
In Louisiana , there is " very early evidence of increasing test positivity and cases . " 
In Ohio , there is " significant reemergence of community spread . " 
In Illinois , there is " high and worsening transmission affecting the entire state " after " sharp " increases in cases and test positivity over the last week . 
Delaware , the task force said , " remains vulnerable " and is " at an important inflection point , " calling on the state to increase social distancing until cases decline . 
There is concern in Utah , which has the sixth highest case rate , about large gatherings : " Super spreader events are still likely in areas where social distancing is not practiced and use of face coverings is low ; impose or recommend restriction on the size of public or social gatherings to limit the ongoing possibility of such events . " 
Colorado , the state ’s task force report said , is " at a critical juncture " that will depend on " increased observation of social distancing mitigation measures . " 
California and Maryland , meanwhile , won praise from the task force for " strong success with the gradated series of mitigation measures " and a " well developed , gradated set of social distancing measures , " respectively . 
