In Greece , health authorities say infection rates have continued to drop today , but not enough to ease the pressure on intensive care units in the country . 
Confirmed coronavirus cases fell from 1,667 on Friday to 1,383 on Saturday , but there was only a marginal decrease in patients requiring intubation from 612 to 594 over the same 24 hour period . 
The death toll for both days was 98 . 
After faring comparatively well during the first wave of the pandemic , Greece has been hit by a surge of infections during the second wave that is proving far more difficult to handle . 
With the hoped for flattening of the curve taking much longer than anticipated , epidemiologists have increasingly sounded the alarm over easing restrictions despite the nation being under lockdown since 7 November . 
Heavy viral loads in the north of the country especially have put hospitals under extreme pressure . 
Mathematical models predict the slow reduction rates continuing through to the end of the year , when daily infections are forecast to fall to around 770 , still far above the 500 benchmark figure the centre right government had set as a target to reopen the economy . 
Environmental health engineer Dimosthenis Sarigiannis said it would be " premature " to relax restrictions when data showed confirmed coronavirus cases likely to hover around an estimated 1,475 on 8 December and 1,100 on 15 December . 
" The case numbers are not in keeping with the goal set by the minister of health , Vassilis Kikilias , which was 500 cases to open the market , " Sarigiannis a professor at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki told SKAI . 
" Our simulations show that if shops open and measures are not upheld , 15 to 20 days later we will see a resurgence . 
Consequently , any opening would be premature . " 
The lockdown was extended through to 14 December this week . 
Speaking earlier on Saturday , Stelios Petsas , the government spokesman , said plans were afoot to set up 1,018 vaccination centres with the aim of immunising two million people a month . 
The vaccination programme is scheduled to begin on 11 January , he told Mega TV on Saturday , warning that travel between prefectures in Greece over the Christmas holidays " seems very difficult " . 
The latest data showed that the virus " has left urban centres and been transmitted to villages and small towns " , he said . 
