Parts of Mexico that have been spared the worst of the epidemic could reopen as soon as 17 May – a date some health experts worry is too ambitious as the country still has not carried out widespread testing or enforced strict quarantine . 
Jorge Alcocer told reporters that roughly 300 of Mexico ’s more than 2,400 municipalities would likely to be reopened , depending on assessments from the health authorities . 
The rest of the country is projected to reopen at the end of month – with school returning 1 June – according to President Andrés Manuel López Obrador , who will unveil plans on Wednesday for " returning to a new normalcy " . 
López Obrador has spoken of Mexico " being able to tame " the virus and ranking among the 10 least impacted countries in the Covid 19 pandemic . 
His coronavirus czar Hugo López–Gatell says the country has flattened its Covid 19 curve and hit its peak of cases . 
Mexico has recorded 36,327 confirmed cases and 3,573 deaths as of Monday , according to the Health Secretariat . 
Those numbers and government claims of having the epidemic under control have come under scrutiny . 
Stories appearing 8 May in The New York Times , The Wall Street Journal and El País raised accusations of undercounting both cases and deaths . 
López Gatell suggested there had been some kind of conspiracy – the stories were published the same day – but also acknowledged that the counts are likely low – something he said is not unusual in pandemics . 
López Obrador accused the Times of lacking ethics . 
Mexico has some of the lowest testing rates in Latin America , with just 0.4 tests per 1,000 people . 
Mexico has depended on disease modelling to guide its response , rather than widespread testing , which health experts say explains its low case numbers . 
Malaquías López Cervantes , an epidemiologist at the National Autonomous University of Mexico , said the model Mexico is depending on – which takes samples from 475 stations around the country – can provide a national picture . 
But he cautioned : They cannot know [ which cities to open ] because if a sample is not representative at the state level , would it be much less representative at the municipal level … It ’s a national sample . 
Nothing more . 
