The numbers : Johns Hopkins University , which is tracking cases reported by the World Health Organization and additional sources , puts the total number of cases worldwide at more than 244,500 with at least 10,000 deaths . 
Californians ordered to stay home : Around 40 million residents have been told to stay home to prevent the spread of the virus -- the first statewide order in the US . 
California is the most populous US state and is the country 's largest state economy . 
About 25 million Californians -- over half the state 's population -- could be impacted by the coronavirus , the governor estimates . 
Argentina locks down : Argentina , home to 45 million people , is the latest country to enact measures ordering people to stay in their homes with limited exceptions . 
People are allowed to leave for basic needs like grocery shopping or doctor 's appointments but police will be patrolling the streets and those without a valid reason to be outside will be penalized . 
Carmakers halt production in US : Japanese automakers Toyota , Honda and Nissan have all announced that their factories in the US will halt production in a bid to help stop the spread of coronavirus . 
Indonesia reports highest death toll in region : Indonesia ’s coronavirus death toll hit 25 yesterday , the highest number of deaths for Southeast Asia . 
The Philippines currently has 17 fatalities , according to state news agency PNA , and Malaysia has two . 
India stops export of masks : India has prohibited the export of masks , ventilators and raw textile materials for masks and coveralls . 
It comes a day after the country issued fresh guidelines banning all international commercial passenger flights from landing in India from March 22 . 
US travel advisory : The US State Department has issued a worldwide Level 4 : Do Not Travel Advisory due the coronavirus pandemic . 
In the US , there are at least 13,133 cases of the virus , and 195 deaths . 
Italy death toll : The total number of fatalities reported in the country at the new epicenter of the outbreak has now surpassed China 's death toll . 
The number of deaths in Italy reached 3,405 on Thursday -- 157 more than China 's toll , which stands at 3,248 . 
China no new domestic cases : Mainland China recorded 39 new cases of coronavirus -- all imported from overseas -- on Thursday . 
It 's the second consecutive day of no new domestically transmitted infections . 
It 's also the second day in a row of no new confirmed cases in Hubei province -- ground zero for the pandemic . 
Olympic Torch : The Olympic flame arrived in Japan on Friday , marking the beginning of official Olympic celebrations . 
The International Olympic Committee said it is " fully committed " to holding the Games but the next few weeks could prove decisive in whether it will go ahead this summer . 
