British military personnel will be supporting efforts to carry out coronavirus tests , beginning Wednesday , for hauliers currently stranded in Kent , near the Port of Dover , the UK Ministry of Defense said Wednesday . 
" Starting today , 170 personnel will support COVID 19 testing for hauliers travelling to France from Kent , " the MOD said in a tweet . 
" The support from our Armed Forces personnel will help to get hauliers moving again . " 
Police at the port told a CNN team there that some form of mobile coronavirus testing is also expected to arrive at the port in the next few hours , however they could not confirm where the testing would take place . 
The announcement comes hours after the UK and France agreed to allow truck drivers to travel across the English Channel from the Port of Dover -- the UK ’s main gateway to France and the Continent for freight transportation -- providing they have proof of a negative coronavirus test result . 
Despite trucks now being allowed to cross , UK business groups are warning that there could still be shortages of fresh food in supermarkets . 
" It is good news for consumers as the French borders have now reopened , however it is essential that lorries get moving across the border as quickly as possible , " said Andrew Opie , Director of Food and Sustainability at the British Retail Consortium . 
" Until the backlog is cleared and supply chains return to normal , we anticipate issues with the availability of some fresh goods . " 
The Chief Executive of the Food and Drink Federation , Ian Wright , said : " Even working extremely quickly and with Calais possibly shut for Christmas Day , it is clear it could take until the New Year to return to normal operations . " 
Earlier on Wednesday , UK Housing Secretary Robert Jenrick said the government is hopeful that the situation will begin to ease , but cautioned that it could take some time . 
" There 's going to be quite a lot of work to do in the next few days and this is not going to be an issue which will be resolved immediately , " he told Sky News . 
