After being abruptly rushed out of the White House press briefing Monday , President Trump came back to the briefing room , saying the situation " seems to be very well under control . " 
He told reporters that he had been escorted out of the briefing because there was a shooting outside of the White House . 
" I 'd like to thank the Secret Service for doing their always quick and very effective work , but there was an actual shooting , and somebody 's been taken to the hospital . 
I do not know the condition of the person . 
Seems that the person was shot by Secret Service , so we 'll see what happens , " Trump said . 
Asked by CNN ’s Jeremy Diamond if he was taken to the bunker under the White House , Trump replied , " no , we were taken just out to the oval office . " 
The President was also asked if he was rattled , he said , " I do not know , do I seem rattled ? " 
" I feel very safe with the Secret Service , they ’re fantastic people , they ’re the best of the best , they ’re highly trained , " Trump told reporters . 
" They just wanted me to step aside for a little while just to make sure that everything was clear outside . " 
The suspect shot by Secret Service did not breach " anything , " Trump added . 
" I do not know if he was close or not , he or she , " the President said . 
He added that he had " such confidence " in the Secret Service . 
" I do not think the person breached anything , " he added . 
" I do not believe anything was breached , I asked that question . " 
A senior administration official confirmed to CNN 's Dana Bash that there was active shooter and the shooter is in custody . 
The incident happened at the corner of 17th and Pennsylvania Avenue NW , just outside of the White House grounds and close to Lafayette park . 
Trump abruptly departed the briefing room after a Secret Service agent approached him as he was speaking to the press and whispered something in his ear . 
" Sir , we ’re just going to have to step outside , " the agent can be heard saying . 
" Excuse me ? " 
Trump asked . 
" Step outside , " the agent said . 
" Oh , " Trump said before departing the room . 
Trump said he never thought about not returning to the briefing after being rushed out . 
CNN reporters at the White House report the complex is still under lockdown . 
See the moment here : 
