Europe 's second wave has seen some of its biggest countries report record rises in infections . 
A trend has also emerged that more older people are becoming infected , according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control ( ECDC ) . 
Here 's the latest : Spain : The country topped 1 million cases on Wednesday after 16,973 new cases and 156 deaths were added to the tally for Tuesday . 
Ireland : The nation went into Europe 's strictest coronavirus lockdown on Thursday for six weeks to deal with the outbreak . 
It recorded an increase of nearly 2,000 new cases last week over the week before , prompting the government to impose the stringent measures . 
Germany : The country reported a record 11,287 new cases on Thursday , the highest rise since the start of the pandemic . 
Belgium : Deputy Prime Minister Sophie Wilmès was admitted into intensive care during treatment for Covid 19 . 
Her spokesperson told CNN that she is conscious , stable and able to communicate with her team . 
" Her condition is not alarming , " the spokesperson added . 
According to CNN analysis of data from Johns Hopkins University and the World Health Organization , Belgium and the Czech Republic are seeing the highest number of new coronavirus cases worldwide when measured against their populations . 
Czech Republic : The European Union is sending 30 ventilators to the Czech Republic as the country deals with record numbers of coronavirus cases , the President of the European Commission , Ursula von der Leyen , said . 
The Czech Republic registered 14,968 new coronavirus cases -- a new daily record -- according to new data from the Ministry of Health released Thursday . 
UK : It recorded 26,688 new infections on Wednesday -- the highest daily increase in cases since the pandemic began . 
Authorities also reported 191 new Covid 19 fatalities Italy : Italy recorded 127 coronavirus deaths on Tuesday , marking the first time since May the country 's daily death toll has reached triple digits . 
Almost a third of cases reported on Wednesday were from the northern Lombardy region , the epicenter of Italy 's outbreak in the spring . 
Poland : Poland reported 12,107 new Covid 19 cases on Thursday , hitting a record high for the second day in a row . 
It also registered a record 168 deaths related to Covid 19 , four times larger than the largest daily increase during the first wave in spring . 
It recorded a further 15,199 new cases on Wednesday . 
Russia : Health Minister Mikhail Murashko is self isolating after one of his family members tested positive for the virus . 
Read more : 
