The UK government has advised against travel to mainland Spain , in a dramatic reversal of policy . 
Britain is " very clear now that we advise against travel to mainland Spain , " Foreign Secretary Dominic Rabb said on Sunday while speaking about the sudden removal of a travel corridor between the two countries . 
On Saturday Britain unexpectedly announced people returning from all parts Spain would be required to self isolate for two weeks , reversing their previous stance with immediate effect . 
The quarantine advice applies to all parts of the country , while the travel warning applies only to mainland Spain . 
The decision came after Spain announced 922 new Covid 19 cases on Friday , and 971 on Thursday -- the highest increase since May 8 . 
Speaking on Sky News on Sunday , Raab said the government " took the decision as swiftly as we could , and we ca not apologize for doing so . " 
His comments came as the Spanish government said Spain is a " safe country . " 
The " outbreaks are localized , isolated and controlled , " the country ’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement . 
Travel operator TUI said it was " incredibly disappointed " with the lack of notice from the British government about its decision . 
TUI cancelled all flights from the UK to mainland Spain and the Canary Islands on Sunday , according to a statement sent to CNN . 
" We also look to understand why quarantine has been issued for a whole country , including the Canary Islands and Balearic Islands , when the travel advice is not aligned ( only applying to mainland Spain . ) It demonstrates why clear regional travel corridors need to be considered , " TUI 's Managing Director Andrew Flintham said in the statement . 
The Government of the Balearic Islands -- home to popular destinations like Mallorca and Ibiza -- expressed " great concern " over the new British quarantine measures , adding it will cause " serious problems " to their tourism industry . 
" The Balearic Islands ' government has been working over the last few hours to establish the basis for a safe air corridor with the UK , " a government spokesperson tweeted from an official account , while pointing out the infection rate per 100,000 people is higher in the UK than on the islands . 
One of the British government 's ministers -- Transport Secretary Grant Shapps -- is currently in Spain , a spokesman told CNN on Sunday . 
His presence in the country has prompted criticism from British opposition figures . 
" I think that tells you everything about the government 's approach to this , " Shadow Health Secretary Jonathan Ashworth said . 
Ashworth described the communication around the U turn as " shambolic . " 
The UK has a higher number of both total confirmed cases and deaths than Spain , with the third highest death toll globally . 
