European authorities are battling against further waves of the coronavirus pandemic . 
These are the latest developments from the continent : Germany : More than 40 % of people who recently tested positive for coronavirus in Germany were very likely infected abroad , data from the country 's infectious disease agency , the Robert Koch Institute ( RKI ) , indicated Tuesday night . 
According to the latest figures , the proportion of new cases with links to international travel has risen dramatically since borders began to reopen and now sits at 42 % . 
At the same time , the RKI pointed out the limited validity of the data given that people who have been abroad will be tested more frequently than the rest of the population . 
On Wednesday , Germany reported 1,576 new cases of Covid 19 infections according to the RKI , bringing the total tally to 236,429 cases and 9,280 deaths . 
As numbers in Germany continue to rise , the city of Munich warned it will limit alcohol sales if coronavirus cases reach a certain threshold , authorities announced Tuesday night . 
France : French health authorities reported a " strong rise " in virus transmission on Tuesday , adding that the situation in the country " remains worrying . " 
A further 3,304 new cases were reported on Tuesday . 
By comparison , last Tuesday saw a rise of 2,238 cases , while the Tuesday before saw 1,397 new cases reported . 
Face masks will be mandatory in the southern French city of Marseille , and bars and restaurants must close at 11 p.m . local time in the wider Bouches du Rhône region , local authorities announced Tuesday . 
These measures , which will come into effect on Wednesday night , were decided following a sharp acceleration of coronavirus cases in Marseille , which has an incidence rate of 177 per 100,000 compared to about 33 per 100,000 at the end of July , according to figures given by the regional prefecture Tuesday . 
Spain : Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez announced new measures on Tuesday to stop the spread of Covid 19 , as he admitted " the situation is worrying " . 
Spain will deploy 2,000 military personnel to aid with contact tracing in Spanish regions where it is needed . 
Sánchez also called on the different regional governments to use the Radar contact tracing app as " if just 20 % of people download the application , we can bring down thee contagion levels by 30 % . " 
Only seven of the 17 Spanish regions are now using the app . 
Meanwhile , the President of the Madrid region , Isabel Díaz Ayuso , announced the circumstances under which the education centers will open in the capital . 
Díaz Ayuso said on Tuesday masks will be mandatory for children aged six and above at all times while in education centers . 
Catalonia 's President , Quim Torra , announced similar measures on Monday , saying children in Catalonia will have to wear masks at school from 12 years of age , and from the age of six in territories with " higher risk of contagion . " 
In Spain , where regional governments retain responsibility and decision power on education and health , each of the regions will have to decide on measures for schools and other educational centers to reopen . 
Italy : Italy has seen a steady increase in coronavirus cases in the past week , according to the country 's health ministry . 
Authorities said approximately 50 % of new infections have been contracted during summer vacations , around the country and abroad , primarily among young adults who have not been cautious with social distancing and mask wearing guidelines . 
Italy registered 519 new cases in the past day , bringing the total number of active cases to 19,714 , according to Italian Ministry of Health data released Tuesday . 
Four people have died in the past 24 hours , bringing Italy 's death toll to 35,445 , according to the ministry . 
United Kingdom : The UK Education Secretary Gavin Williamson has said secondary school children in local lockdown regions in England will now be required to wear face masks , after the government revised its previous guidance . 
In other areas of England -- not covered by local lockdown restrictions -- it will be at the headteacher ’s discretion whether face masks should be worn . 
The Scottish government has already announced that students over the age of 12 should wear masks in communal areas and while moving around schools . 
The Welsh government is considering its advice to students . 
Ukraine : Yulia Tymoshenko , Ukraine 's former Prime Minister , remains in serious condition , two days after contracting Covid 19 , according to her party ’s regional spokesperson . 
Speaking to CNN on Tuesday , Natalia Kovalenko said several members of Tymoshenko ’s close family are also ill with the virus . 
This post has been corrected to reflect that Marseille -- not the Bouches du Rhône region -- has an incidence rate of 177 cases per 100,000 residents . 
