All bars in Seoul have been ordered to close until further notice after a spike in coronavirus cases linked to nightclubs in the South Korean capital . 
At a briefing Saturday , Seoul Mayor Park Won soon said that clubs and bars would all need to shut , effective immediately . 
A spike in cases : The order follows a surge in cases connected with nightclubs in Itaewon , a popular nightlife district in Seoul . 
On Thursday , a 29 year old man from the city of Yongin -- on the outskirts of Seoul -- tested positive for the virus . 
The person visited several clubs in Itaewon on the night of May 1 and the early hours of May 2 , according to the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( KCDC ) . 
Since then , 40 others believed to be connected to the case have tested positive . 
Of those , 27 are from Seoul . 
Tracking partygoers : South Korea has not introduced a nationwide lockdown , but has brought in additional measures to control the coronavirus outbreak . 
At nightclubs , for instance , people must provide their full name and phone number before entry . 
According to Park , 1,946 names were listed on the registry books of the three clubs the 29 year old visited . 
Only 647 of those people have been identified . 
More cases possible : Kwon Joon wook , deputy director of the KCDC , also said there may have been more than one source of infection behind the nightclub outbreak . 
Some of the people who have been confirmed positive visited clubs on different nights from the 29 year old . 
" We ’ve put in much efforts and made a lot of sacrifices , " Park added Saturday . 
" Are we just to let this all go to waste because of few people ’s carelessness ? " 
A setback in South Korea : Before the nightclub related spike , new coronavirus cases had been trending down in the country . 
On Tuesday , South Korea reported its lowest number of new cases for more than two months . 
According to Johns Hopkins University , South Korea has reported more than 10,800 coronavirus cases and 256 deaths . 
The vast majority of South Korea 's cases have recovered , the KCDC said earlier this week . 
