In a primetime address to millions of Americans , President Trump misrepresented the travel restrictions he is imposing on travel between the United States and Europe . 
Trump said " we will be suspending all travel from Europe to the United States for the next 30 days " before adding that there will be " exemptions for Americans who have undergone appropriate screenings . " 
Those exemptions are far more extensive than the President made them out to be . 
They apply to all US legal permanent residents , citizens and some of their family members , according to a statement from the Department of Homeland Security . 
The travel restrictions Trump is enacting are in fact far more similar to those enacted on China . 
The ban also does not apply to all of Europe but to nations in the Schengen zone . 
That includes Austria , Belgium , Czech Republic , Denmark , Estonia , Finland , France , Germany , Greece , Hungary , Iceland , Italy , Latvia , Liechtenstein , Lithuania , Luxembourg , Malta , The Netherlands , Norway , Poland , Portugal , Slovakia , Slovenia , Spain , Sweden , and Switzerland . 
What this means : Americans and US permanent residents who are in Europe will still be allowed to fly to Europe and be allowed back into the United States during this 30 day period . 
They will simply be screened upon entry to the United States and face quarantine or restrictions on their movement in the US for 14 days . 
However , it is not clear whether airlines will still fly the routes if passenger demand from European nationals dries up because of the ban . 
Trump also appeared to correct himself on a ban on cargo . 
In his speech he said , " There will be exemptions for Americans who have undergone appropriate screenings and these prohibitions will not only apply to the tremendous amount of trade and cargo , but various other things as we get approval . 
" A few minutes ago , the President tweeted , " . . . please remember , very important for all countries & businesses to know that trade will in no way be affected by the 30 day restriction on travel from Europe . 
The restriction stops people not goods . " 
This is not to say the President is not taking an extremely severe step , but it is not the all encompassing suspension on travel between the United States and Europe that the President portrayed . 
