Indoor soft play centres in the UK have started closing at an " alarming " rate which is much quicker than expected , according to the industry ’s trade association . 
The British Association of Leisure Parks , Piers and Attractions ( Balppa A ) said dozens of sites have already shut just a month after it warned almost two thirds could close by October following the impact of coronavirus . 
A survey , which included more than 60 different indoor play businesses , revealed 18 % would have to close by the end of August , 24 % by the end of September and a further 22 % by the end of October . 
It comes as Eddie Catz Softplay became the latest company to announce it is permanently closing two venues in south London . 
A message on its Facebook page read : As a small business owner having dedicated the last 15 years of my life to developing Eddie Catz into a national softplay chain the decision not to re open has been incredibly hard and heart breaking . 
As you may know from media coverage , there is no scheduled opening date for our industry to reopen as a result of Covid 19 . 
This has been a devastating blow to all indoor soft play operators nationally and the industry is on the verge of collapse . 
Other firms to shut in the past few weeks include Little Lambs Softplay & amp ; 
Roleplay Cafe in Coulsdon , The Big Fun House in Canterbury and Riverside Hub in Northampton . 
Gordon Forster , of Balppa , told the PA news agency : The latest closures are a huge kick in the teeth in the fight against obesity ; indoor play centres are a hidden gem in keeping children active over the summer holidays , when venues would be at their busiest . 
You can see from the outcry of parents on social media after every closure just how much these centres mean for communities . 
Our warning last month has come certainly true , the rate of closures has already been alarming and is so quick that by October even more than we predicted could close . 
It ’s incredibly worrying , these businesses are often owned by individual operators and their personal circumstances are being seriously affected . 
