Weather disasters and the Covid 19 pandemic have simultaneously hit tens of millions of people worldwide this year , making them more vulnerable to both threats and hampering emergency response , the Red Cross has said . 
In a new analysis , the international humanitarian agency said about 70 % of the 132 disasters linked to extreme weather in 2020 had coincided in place and time with the Covid 19 pandemic . 
Globally , more than 51 million people - likely an underestimate - had been recorded as directly affected by an overlap of floods , droughts or storms and the pandemic , with nearly 3,500 people killed in the weather events , it said . 
Francesco Rocca , president of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies ( IFRC ) , said : The climate crisis has not stopped for Covid 19 , and millions of people have suffered from the two crises colliding . 
We have had absolutely no choice but to address both crises simultaneously . 
While not all weather disasters have a direct link with global warming , the climate is becoming more volatile and weather more extreme as the planet heats up , he added . 
The report , produced with the Red Cross Red Crescent Climate Centre , said the pandemic was complicating efforts to evacuate people , including a need for more shelters to respect distancing and prevent infection . 
Disrupted global supply chains have also slowed the flow of relief aid and recovery equipment , the report said , and the pandemic has increased the need for financial humanitarian assistance at a time of deep global downturn . 
The places where the colliding threats have shown up most clearly are India and Bangladesh , where almost 40 million people were affected by the pandemic and monsoon floods or storms . 
The analysis also looked at the intersection between heatwaves and Covid 19 . 
Nearly 432 million vulnerable people , including the elderly and infants , have struggled with the twin threat this year , including many in Europe and North America , it noted . 
On the West Coast of the United States , meanwhile , more than 2 million people have had to deal with major wildfires and the pandemic together , with smoke potentially hiking the likelihood of lung infections including Covid 19 , the report said . 
Rocca said the Red Cross welcomed a rise in the number of volunteers helping out in their communities , particularly in developed Western countries , as well as a rise in donations for the Covid 19 response . 
But Richard Blewitt , the IFRC ’s permanent observer to the United Nations , warned of a " major gap " in funding for other humanitarian crises , such as the current flooding in Sudan . 
Wealthy countries may also not deliver the $ 100bn they had promised this year to help poorer countries tackle climate change , he added . 
Rocca said : The massive global investment in recovering from the pandemic proves governments can act decisively and drastically in the face of imminent global threats . 
We urgently need this same energy on climate . 
