There ’s more evidence that people start to lose any immunity to the novel coronavirus within a few weeks after they have been infected – especially if they have mild symptoms or no symptoms . 
A team at the University of California Los Angeles did an in depth study of 34 people who had recovered from mild coronavirus infections . 
They tested their blood two or three times over three months . 
They found a rapid drop in antibodies – the immune system proteins that help stop viruses from infecting cells in the body . 
On average , the antibody levels fell by half every 36 days , Dr . Otto Yang of UCLA ’s Geffen School of Medicine and colleagues reported in The New England Journal of Medicine . 
A survey of people in Spain released earlier this month found similar results . 
" Our findings raise concern that humoral immunity against SARS Co V 2 may not be long lasting in persons with mild illness , who compose the majority of persons with Covid 19 , " Yang and colleagues wrote . 
" It is difficult to extrapolate beyond our observation period of approximately 90 days because it is likely that the decay will decelerate . 
Still , the results call for caution regarding antibody based ‘ immunity passports , ’ herd immunity , and perhaps vaccine durability , especially in light of short lived immunity against common human coronaviruses . " 
It ’s still not known if people can be infected more than once with the novel coronavirus . 
But there are other , related coronaviruses that cause common colds , and people can and do catch those repeatedly . 
" A crucial question is the extent to which these mildly infected individuals contribute to onward transmission . 
Another one , is whether or not a mildly infected individual , if infected again , is any more or less likely than average to develop a severe infection the second time around , " said Rowland Kao , an epidemiologist at the University of Edinburgh in the UK who was not involved in the study . 
CORRECTION : This post has been updated to indicate that on average , antibody levels fell by half every 36 days . 
