The mayor of Medellín , Colombia ’s second city , has sparked outrage by calling on Cuba to send brigades of doctors to help battle his city ’s coronavirus outbreak . 
Daniel Quintero , the mayor of the South American city , sent a letter earlier this month to Cuba ’s communist government requesting personnel to man 600 intensive care units , as the city braced for climbing Covid 19 cases . 
Colombia has confirmed 248,976 cases of Covid 19 , with 8,525 deaths . 
Cases and deaths climbed Sunday evening by 8,181 and 256 respectively . 
Antioquia , the province of which Medellín is the capital , has seen 24,143 cases . 
Cuba has long sent its doctors and technicians abroad , as part of a medical mission founded in the wake of Fidel Castro ’s communist revolution in the 60s . 
Since March , when the coronavirus pandemic swept through Europe , the Caribbean nation has sent 1,500 medical professionals abroad . 
One brigade was well received by locals in Lombardy , The Guardian reported in May . Cuba ’s government , led by the Communist Party since 1965 , claims to have sent 400,000 health workers to tackle crises around the world . 
But the Cuban government , now led by Miguel Díaz Canel , has received staunch criticism from rights groups over the conditions its overseas doctors face . 
Health workers are prohibited from forming relationships with anyone " whose actions are not consistent with the principles and values of the Cuban society , " according to Cuban law . 
José Miguel Vivanco , Americas director at Human Rights Watch , said in a statement last week : Cuban doctors deployed to respond to the Covid 19 pandemic provide valuable services to many communities , but at the expense of their most basic freedoms . 
Governments interested in receiving support from Cuban doctors should press the Cuban government to overhaul this Orwellian system that dictates with whom doctors can live , fall in love , or talk . 
The Trump administration has also sought to undercut Cuba ’s medical diplomacy , leading Bolivia and Brazil - both countries with new right wing leaders - to expel Cuban medical personnel . 
Quintero , Medellín ’s mayor , facing criticism for calling on support from one of conservative Colombia ’s ideological and regional rivals , defended his decision to call for help on Sunday evening , after news of the letter was made public . 
He tweeted : We have not understood the message of the coronavirus . 
Beyond borders , races and ideologies , it was reminded as that as people we need each other . 
He went on to say that his administration has also requested vaccines from the US and UK , tests from the United Arab Emirates , and personnel from span . 
" Life has to come before politics , " Quintero said . 
