British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Monday that people should wear face coverings inside shops , adding that the UK government would outline how it plans to enforce its advice on masks over the next few days . 
" I do think that in shops it is very important to wear a face covering if you are going be in a confined space and want to protect other people and receive protection in turn , " Johnson said during a televised interview on Monday . 
" In terms of how we do that , whether we 'll be making it mandatory , we 'll be looking at the guidance , we 'll be saying a little bit more in the next few days , " he added . 
The Prime Minister 's remarks came just a day after his cabinet minister , Michael Gove , said he did not believe the use of face masks should be made compulsory . 
" I do not think mandatory , no , but I would encourage people to wear face masks when they 're inside in an environment where they 're likely to be mixing with others , " Gove told the BBC on Sunday . 
" It 's always better to trust people 's common sense , " he added . 
What 's the situation in the UK ? 
The UK is one of the countries worst hit by coronavirus . 
With almost 45,000 fatalities , it stands third behind Brazil and the United States . 
" The UK is way behind many countries in terms of wearing masks , " Venki Ramakrishnan , the head of the Royal Society , Britain 's national academy of sciences , said last week . 
Ramakrishnan argued that not wearing a mask should be regarded as antisocial as drink driving , reasoning that there is a " growing body of evidence that wearing a mask will help protect others -- and might even protect you . " 
Despite this , the only places where face masks are compulsory in England is on public transport , a measure brought in on June 15 , and in healthcare settings . 
Government considers enforcement measures : While the Prime Minister said Monday that members of the public had shown " amazing sensitivity " to others over the course of the pandemic , he confirmed that the government is looking into enforcement measures . 
" We 'll be looking in the next few days about how exactly how , with what tools of enforcement , we think we want to make progress , " Johnson said . 
" As the virus comes down in incidence and we have more and more success , face coverings are a kind of extra reassurance that we can all use to stop it coming back and stop it getting out of control again , " he added . 
