The novel coronavirus has now infected more than 3 million people and killed at least 211,000 worldwide , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
If you 're just joining us , here are the latest developments : WHO warns countries : World Health Organization director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the agency " can only give advice " and that " each country takes its own responsibility " to implement measures to tackle Covid 19 . 
Tedros also said the pandemic was " far from over . " 
US deaths prediction : Dr . Chris Murray , director of the University of Washington ’s Institute for Help Metrics and Evaluation , said that they ’ve adjusted their scientific model to increase the predicted US coronavirus death toll to 74,000 . 
The model had previously forecast 60,000 deaths . 
New Zealand 's success : The country is " not out of the woods , " Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said , as it entered its first day of transitioning to Alert Level 3 from the toughest lockdown restrictions of Level 4 . 
Ardern said the country must stay vigilant to protect the progress made so far . 
Hong Kong goes back to work : Civil servants will start returning to work and public services will resume next Monday . 
The government will also begin loosening some Covid 19 anti epidemic measures , after the city reported no new confirmed cases for the fourth time in eight days . 
Destruction of the natural world : Future pandemics are likely to be more frequent , deadly , and will spread more rapidly , unless we stop the widespread destruction of our environment , a group of four leading scientists said . 
Bondi reopens : Australia 's iconic Bondi Beach reopened for surfers and swimmers today but the beach remains off limits to everyone else . 
The water can be accessed only for surfers and swimmers between the hours of 7 a.m . and 5 p.m . on weekdays . 
White House plan : US President Donald Trump announced a " blueprint " to set guidance on how states should handle coronavirus , distinguishing the roles between states and the federal government . 
US lockdowns : New York 's first phase of reopening could begin after May 15 in some areas , the governor said . 
Other states are already taking their first steps toward reopening . 
