Boris Johnson has insisted the nation has " a moral duty " to reopen schools next month , amid indications he would force pubs , restaurants and shops to close ahead of schools in the event of severe coronavirus flare ups . 
Writing exclusively in the Mail on Sunday , Johnson said it the " national priority " to get all pupils back into classrooms in September after months without in person education . 
" This pandemic is not over , and the last thing any of us can afford to do is become complacent , " he wrote . 
" But now that we know enough to reopen schools to all pupils safely , we have a moral duty to do so . " 
He warned of the " spiralling economic costs " of parents and carers being unable to work , adding : " Keeping our schools closed a moment longer than absolutely necessary is socially intolerable , economically unsustainable and morally indefensible . " 
MAIL EXCLUSIVE : ⁦ @ Boris Johnson ⁩ : It ’s a moral duty to reopen schools # Tomorrows Papers Today It comes after children ’s commissioner for England Anne Longfield had said the reopening of schools " should be prioritised " , insisting they must be first to reopen and last to close during any reintroduction of restrictions . 
However leading scientist and teachers unions have expressed concerns about the safety of the government ’s plans to reopen schools . 
According to the PA news agency , Johnson is understood to favour only closing schools as the last resort after scientific advisers warned more restrictions may be needed to reopen classrooms in England next month . 
A No 10 source told PA on Saturday that Mr Johnson ’s expectation is that schools would be the last sector to close , with firms being shut first in the event of severe local lockdowns . 
" The PM has been clear that businesses including shops , pubs and restaurants should be forced to close first , with schools remaining open for as long as possible , " the source said . 
But schools minister Nick Gibb said this week that the government cannot " decree " that classroom education would be prioritised , instead saying decisions would be made by local health chiefs . 
Professor Chris Whitty , the chief medical officer for England , has warned the nation has " probably reached near the limit or the limits " of what can be done to reopen society safely . 
And Professor Neil Ferguson , whose modelling led to the decision to impose the lockdown , suggested ministers would need to " row back on the relaxation of restrictions " to allow a full time return to schools while keeping the virus under control . 
