Smoke from deforestation related fires in the Brazilian Amazon last year hospitalised more than 2,000 people and led to a " significant negative impact on public health " in the region , researchers have said . 
With similar serious fires expected this year , on top of a deadly Covid 19 pandemic , heavily hospitalisations are likely to be repeated , " potentially collapsing " an already overburdened health system in the region , they said in a report . 
" We are watching a situation similar , or even worse , than last year , " said Ane Alencar , director of science at IPAM , the Amazon Environmental Research Institute , one of the institutions behind the study . 
More than 4,500 square kilometres of Amazon land deforested this year or cleared but not burned last year could be set on fire during this year ’s dry season , which normally runs from July to September , according to the new study . 
In July , the Amazon region saw a 28 % increase in fires compared to the same period last year , it said . 
Miguel Lago , executive director of IEPS , Brazil ’s Institute for Health Policy Studies , called the north of Brazil the largest area of " clinic deserts " - areas of limited healthcare availability - in the country . 
The Amazonian region around Manaus , for instance , has only 8.8 intensive care hospital beds per 100,000 people , below the Brazilian health ministry ’s recommendation of 10 beds , Lago said . 
The Amazon has seen the worst outbreak of Covid 19 in Brazil , itself one of the countries most heavily impacted by the virus . 
" We have a very fragile health system in the Amazon , that has had a hard time facing the pandemic . 
So the coincidence of fires and the pandemic is very , very bad , " Lago said . 
More needs to be done to limit forest fires in the region this year , with the healthcare system already struggling to deal with coronavirus cases , he said . 
" We should be doing everything we can to avoid hospitalisation - and in this case fires are totally avoidable , " he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation . 
