Frontline workers in El Paso , Texas told reporters Friday that a court decision to stop a city shutdown order was " a disaster for our health system , which is in near collapse . " 
Texas 8th Court of Appeals ruled Thursday to issue a preliminary injunction on El Paso County Judge Ricardo Samaniego 's shutdown order , effectively allowing non essential businesses to re open , according to previous CNN reporting . 
" This order is especially a disaster for our health system , which is in near collapse here in El Paso , from the calamity just ripping through our facilities every day , " Juan Anchondo , a nurse at Las Palmas Medical Center , said on a Zoom call . 
The call , which was hosted by National Nurses United , included three nurses and an El Paso City Representative . 
Ariana Lucio , an RN at Del Sol Medical Center who works on the Covid 19 unit , said she was " disappointed " and " concerned " Samaniego 's order was struck down as the surge in El Paso has already " taken a very emotional and physical toll on the nurses and doctors . " 
Idali Cooper , also an RN in El Paso , expressed disappointment , especially given how disproportionally Covid 19 negatively affects people of color . 
Cooper said she felt the court 's preliminary injunction would " have dire consequences for my community or for communities of color . " 
Anchondo spoke of an increasing problem of ventilator shortages where nurses were put in the " unthinkable situation of needing to urge a family to approve withdrawal of care " because a ventilator was needed for another patient who had a better chance of survival . 
" This worst case scenario is our current reality here in El Paso Country , " Anchondo said . 
A county commissioner told CNN Friday that the court ’s ruling was a preliminary injunction of the order and it is expected to rule Friday whether or not to invalidate the order completely or send it back to a lower court to undergo a trial . 
According to this official , the county will weigh their legal options once the decision is handed down . 
El Paso passed the grim milestone of 70,000 cases Friday , with 70,575 total infections and a seven day positivity rate of 20.50 % , according to the city 's Covid 19 dashboard . 
Texas on Wednesday became the first state to report more than 1 million cases . 
