UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson ’s top adviser , Dominic Cummings , has defended his actions after receiving widespread criticism for traveling more than 250 miles ( 402 kilometers ) from his London home during the nationwide coronavirus lockdown , telling reporters on Monday that he traveled to Durham to ensure the welfare of his child . 
" I can understand that some people will argue that I should have stayed at my home in London throughout . 
I understand these views , I know the intense hardship and sacrifice the entire country has had to go through , however I respectfully disagree . " 
Cummings also told reporters that he believes his actions were " reasonable in these circumstances , " detailing the series of events which preceded his decision to leave London . 
" I was worried that if both my wife and I were seriously ill , possibly hospitalized , there is nobody in London that we could reasonably ask to look after our child and expose themselves to Covid , " the Prime Minister ’s adviser said . 
" I do not regret what I did…I think what I did was actually reasonable in these circumstances . " 
Some context : Following an investigation by the Mirror and Guardian newspapers , Cummings was revealed to have traveled to Durham – more than 250 miles from his home in London – during the lockdown , despite his wife having developed symptoms of coronavirus . 
While Johnson has offered his support for Cummings , saying on Sunday that he believes his adviser acted " responsibly , legally and with integrity , " Cummings confirmed on Monday that he did not inform the Prime Minister of his decision prior to leaving for Durham . 
" I did not ask the Prime Minister about this decision . 
He was ill himself , and he had huge problems to deal with…I thought that I would speak to him when the situation clarified over coming days , " Cummings said . 
" Arguably this was a mistake and I understand that some will say that I should have spoken to the Prime Minister before deciding what to do . " 
