Over half of all confirmed cases in South Korea are connected to the Daegu branch of the Shincheonji religious group , according to South Korean authorities . 
In total , 1,557 cases -- or 53.1 % of South Korea 's total cases -- are connected to the group . 
The vast majority of those are in the city of Daegu . 
There are 2,931 total coronavirus cases in South Korea , and 2,055 of them in Daegu . 
Of the cases in Daegu , 1,356 are connected with the group . 
What is the Shincheonji religious group ? 
Shincheonji Church of Jesus , the Temple of the Tabernacle of the Testimony was established on March 14 , 1984 , by Lee and is centered around the personality of its founder . 
Little is known about his past . 
The group -- which is an offshoot of Christianity -- says it has about 245,000 members more than 31,000 of them from overseas . 
Why would the virus have spread through the group ? 
According to former member Duhyen Kim , attendance at services was mandatory . 
Members need to swipe in and out of services with a special card , and any absence was followed up on . 
Sickness was not a reason to miss services . 
He describes how , when he was a member , followers would sit on the floor during hours long services " packed together like sardines . " 
And according to Kim , attendees are not allowed to wear anything on their faces -- even glasses -- during prayer time . 
How has the group handled the outbreak ? 
There 's been heavy criticism of the group 's level of transparency . 
South Korea 's Gyeonggi provincial governor , Lee Jae myung , said in a radio interview with Korean station TBS , that the Shincheonji group had not initially cooperated with officials as promised . 
Daegu police deployed 600 officers to find hundreds of members , knocking on doors , tracking phones and scouring security camera footage to find them , and asking them to self isolate . 
Members of the public signed an online petition filed to the president 's office calling for Shincheonji to be dissolved . 
But Shincheonji says it has close to 1,100 buildings and is disinfecting them to try to stem the spread of the virus . 
It also says it is cooperating with local authorities , and has shut down all church services and gatherings . 
Read more about how the virus spread through the group here . 
