China is closing its border to foreigners amid fears of imported novel coronavirus cases causing a second outbreak in the country where the infection was first detected . 
In a statement late Thursday , the country 's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that " in view of the rapid spread of Covid 19 across the world , China has decided to temporarily suspend the entry into China by foreign nationals holding visas or residence permits " as of March 28 . 
Anyone wishing to enter the country will have to apply for a visa at their local Chinese embassy or consulate . 
The announcement did not say how long this would take . 
The decision to effectively seal off the country is the latest in a series of moves intended to safeguard against infection from international travel , after more than 500 imported cases of the coronavirus were confirmed . 
It also comes after Beijing repeatedly criticized other governments for taking similar measures during the early weeks and months of the coronavirus pandemic . 
The World Health Organization ( WHO ) also called on countries not to limit travel from China , while praising Beijing for measures taken to rein in infections . 
Speaking in Israel after that country announced severe restrictions on all foreign arrivals , China 's ambassador reportedly said that " in the darkest days of the Jewish people , we did not close the door on them . 
I hope Israel will not close the door on the Chinese . " 
The embassy later apologized , saying there was " no intention whatsoever to compare the dark days of the Holocaust with the current situation , " according to the Times of Israel . 
When the US raised its China travel advisory to the highest level in February , the country 's foreign ministry said this " set a bad example " and was " certainly not a gesture of goodwill . " 
" Virus respects no borders . 
It requires a collective response from the international community , " China 's Foreign Minister Wang Yi said later that month . 
" In our view , the enhanced inspection measures taken by some countries are reasonable but some other countries have overreacted . 
Their overreaction has caused unnecessary panic and is not consistent with the WHO recommendations . " 
Read more here . 
