It is " unacceptable " that some people in the UK have reportedly been asked to wait weeks , or travel hundreds of miles , for a coronavirus test , the country 's Home Secretary said on Tuesday . 
" Clearly there is much more work that needs to be undertaken , " Priti Patel told the BBC . 
" Coronavirus is increasing , and therefore the demand is increasing as well for testing . " 
Meanwhile , a membership organization for the National Health Service on Tuesday said that a testing shortage was starting to force some of its members ’ staff to " self isolate in the absence of a test , " and that it was concerned about preparations for the coming winter . 
" The government has always seemed more concerned with managing the political implications of operational problems rather than being open and honest about them , " said Chris Hopson , chief executive of NHS Providers . 
The UK Government says it is conducting just over 200,000 tests per day . 
Reported coronavirus infections have been surging in the country . 
There were an average of 3,004 new infections per day in the last seven days , compared to 2,032 per day in the previous seven day period . 
The British government has at times sent mixed messages on who should be getting coronavirus tests . 
Last week , Health Secretary Matt Hancock told the BBC that there had been " a rise in the number of people who are not eligible for a test coming forward and getting those tests . " 
He estimated that 25 % of those getting tested were not eligible . 
UK government guidelines are that only those displaying one of three symptoms , or those who have been asked by a government body , are eligible for a test . 
Nonetheless , on July 21 , Hancock tweeted that " anybody who needs a test can get a test , " and that " if you have symptoms , if in doubt , get a test . " 
On September 9 , Prime Minister Boris Johnson told the House of Commons that " the world we want to move to as fast as possible is a world in which everybody can take enabling tests at the beginning of the day , and antigen tests to identify whether or not we have the virus . " 
