A group of senators accused the White House of downplaying the dangers of the coronavirus pandemic by ignoring the serious and long term effects the virus can have on some patients . 
They wrote a letter to Vice President Mike Pence on Wednesday , asking him to outline how the White House coronavirus task force plans to address the issue of lasting health effects from infection . 
" As the number of new COVID 19 cases in the United States reaches new highs on a daily basis , the failure to fully understand , communicate , and address the chronic long term morbidity risks from the disease would represent a new and dramatic public health failure on top of the Trump Administration ’s initial and ongoing failure to contain the disease , " the four Democratic senators – Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts , Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin , Tina Smith of Minnesota and Bernie Sanders of Vermont – wrote . 
Earlier on Wednesday , the World Health Organization ’s Dr . Mike Ryan said many patients suffer long term fatigue and poor lung function . 
" Even if you 're not going to die from it , and even if you 're not going to be admitted to the hospital , a significant minority of people – even young people – find it hard to make a full and immediate recovery from the disease , " he said . 
The senators noted that scientific reports about these problems have been building for weeks . 
" President Trump has falsely tried to assure the public that ‘ 99 % ’ of coronavirus cases are ‘ totally harmless ’ and has repeatedly claimed that the virus will one day just ‘ disappear , ’ " they wrote . 
" Similarly , Vice President Pence claimed that Americans can ‘ take some comfort in the fact that fatalities are declining all across the country , ’ calling it ‘ very encouraging news ’ that an increasing number of coronavirus cases are occurring in younger victims , " they added . 
" But using fatality rates as the sole measure of effectiveness in mitigating the COVID 19 pandemic – essentially acting as if the only potential risk from COVID 19 is death – would ignore the growing evidence of the chronic health impacts of the disease . " 
They asked Pence to answer questions about how the task force is evaluating the risks to survivors . 
" How are these risks being factored into Task Force actions and recommendations alongside the mortality risks of the disease ? 
Specifically , how does the Task Force evaluate and assess these risks with regard to reopening schools , businesses , and the economy ? " they asked . 
" How are CDC , NIH , and other federal agencies conducting long term surveillance or other research on survivors of COVID 19 , including those who presented with nonsevere symptoms and those who presented with severe symptoms ? 
How is this information being transmitted to and used by the Task Force ? " 
They asked for answers by July 31 . 
