Discussing the " off label " use of hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine for Covid 19 , the commissioner of the US Food and Drug Administration this weekend said his agency does not " regulate the practice of medicine . " 
FDA Commissioner Dr . Stephen Hahn made the comments in an open letter published on the FDA ’s website Friday and tweeted out by Hahn Sunday . 
The letter was titled " Bringing a Cancer Doctor ’s Perspective to FDA ’s Response to the COVID 19 Pandemic , " but it focused heavily on unproven drugs touted by President Trump for coronavirus . 
In April , however , the FDA warned against using the drugs to treat coronavirus outside of hospitals or clinical trials , pointing to the risk of severe heart problems or death . 
Even so , Trump earlier this month claimed he was taking daily doses of hydroxychloroquine to prevent infection . 
In his letter , Hahn said many physicians have " prescribed these drugs for patients with Covid 19 based on an individual assessment of the potential benefits versus the risks for an individual patient . " 
Still , his letter pointed to the potential risks of hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine . 
" It is important that patients and health care providers understand the known side effects of these drugs , including serious and potentially life threatening heart rhythm problems as noted in a recent Drug Safety Communication , " Hahn wrote , pointing to the FDA ’s earlier warning . 
But he said patients who have been prescribed the drugs for approved reasons , like lupus , should understand that " the FDA ’s approval means the agency has determined them to be safe and effective for those conditions . " 
Hahn appeared to defend a limited emergency use authorization that the FDA issued for the two drugs in late March . 
The authorization was narrow in scope , applying only to hospitalized Covid 19 patients and only to drugs donated to the Strategic National Stockpile . 
" This decision was based on evaluation of the EUA criteria and the scientific evidence available at that time . 
We continue to look at the data on hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine and we will make future determinations on these products based on available evidence including ongoing clinical studies , " Hahn said in the letter . 
The emergency use authorization , or EUA , made it easier for pills donated to the national stockpile to be distributed to coronavirus patients . 
" We also knew it was important to help ensure a stable supply of the drugs for patients with lupus and rheumatoid arthritis given the increased demand , " Hahn said . 
In an interview with CNN this week , Hahn denied political pressure at the FDA . 
But the agency has had to issue a number of high profile walk backs and revisions during the pandemic . 
" Some of the science and data are not perfect in emergency situations , " he said . 
" You make the best with the information you have at hand . " 
