New York paramedic Anthony Almojera urged the public to " just wear a mask , " saying the coronavirus is still circulating and the risk of exposure still remains high . 
Almojera also underlined the strain that Covid 19 has put on first responders . 
" You felt every bit of that energy , and it took all of it out of you as a responder . 
To sit there and go into home after home trying to revive these people and console them ; you know I always thought I had an unlimited amount of empathy . 
You know , as a paramedic , you have to have some of that , you think you have that . 
And Covid put that to the test . 
There is a limit , " he said . 
Almojera noted EMT workers have not just died from the coronavirus , bu he worries that the pandemic has also had mental health repercussions for first responders . 
Two EMTs in New York have already committed suicide and others have expressed the desire to do so , he said . 
" We 're trying to manage [ the coronavirus ] crisis , and to have PTSD diagnosed , it takes 30 days after the event . 
We 're not after the event . 
There 's no time to heal , " Almojera said . 
Almojera adds that the New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio also needs to address better and equal pay for first responder . 
" He 's a mayor that preaches equality , " Almojera said . 
" We ’re 54 % minority , we 're 38 % women , we 're the most diverse 911 workforce . 
You would think somebody who would preach equality and see the work that we do as a 911 service , with just the same dangers as the other two , would equalize us . 
That would be an easy win for him . 
It 's the stroke of a pen . " 
" He can fix it tomorrow if he wanted to , " Almojera adds , saying that his EMT members come from the same minority communities that are adversely affected during the pandemic . 
" The members I represent live in those communities . 
We live in East New York , Brooklyn and the Bronx and uptown and in Queens . 
We live here . 
We do not have the funds to buy a house in other places , " he said . 
Watch the interview : 
