Donald Trump has reignited a controversy over the antimalarial drugs chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine after telling reporters he was taking the latter to protect himself against coronavirus . 
What do we know about these drugs ? 
Hydroxychloroquine , which Trump says he has been taking for about two weeks , was developed as an antimalarial but it is also used to treat conditions like lupus , an anti immune disease , and arthritis , where it can help combat inflammation . 
It has been licensed for use in the US since the mid 1950s and is listed by the World Health Organization as an " essential " medicine . 
In May , the British Medical Journal reported on a randomised ( although still problematic ) clinical trial in China that found little evidence hydroxychloroquine worked , with serious adverse events noted in two patients . 
A second study reported in the BMJ last week on a French trial also concluded that hydroxychloroquine does not significantly reduce admission to intensive care or improve survival rates in patients hospitalised with pneumonia owing to Covid 19 . 
Overall , 89 % of those who received hydroxychloroquine survived after 21 days , compared with 91 % in the control group . 
The US Food and Drug Administration in a safety alert issued on 24 April warned that it had received reports that hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine could have serious side effects and that the drugs should be taken only under the close supervision of a doctor in a hospital setting or a clinical trial . 
There are several side effects . 
The most serious is that it can interfere with the rhythm of the heart . 
Other side effects include headache , dizziness , nausea , vomiting , stomach pain , skin rash or itching or hair loss . 
Research published by the Mayo Clinic has suggested that " off label " repurposing of drugs such as hydroxychloroquine could lead to " drug induced sudden cardiac death " . 
Although Trump ’s official physician has said he was in " very good health " at his last official checkup , the president is 73 and his recorded weight would put him in a BMI category of " clinically obese " . 
