The coronavirus pandemic threatens to bring " deeper and more widespread suffering " in Yemen , UN Special Envoy Martin Griffiths said , calling for an end to the country 's conflict . 
" Yemen cannot face two fronts at the same time : a war and a pandemic , " Griffiths told the UN Security Council on Thursday . 
" The new battle that Yemen faces in confronting the virus will be all consuming , " he said . 
" We can do no less than stop this war and turn all our attention to this new threat . " 
Yemeni government forces , together with allies and rebels known as Houthis , have been fighting over control of the impoverished nation for more than five years , creating the world ’s worst humanitarian crisis , the UN said . 
Roughly 80 % of the population relies on aid relief . 
" The arrival of the Covid 19 pandemic to Yemen threatens to bring deeper and more widespread suffering to the people , " Griffith said . 
" There cannot be a more timely moment for the two parties to commit to silencing the guns and ending the conflict through a peaceful , political solution . " 
Griffiths has been " in constant negotiations " with the two sides on proposals for a nationwide ceasefire and on key measures , such as prisoner release , paying civil servant salaries , and opening roads for humanitarian access , the UN said in a statement . 
Nonetheless , hostilities have continued and civilian casualties have been rising every month since January , according to the UN . 
More than 500 people were killed or injured during this period , a third of them children . 
Five years of fighting have degraded the country 's health infrastructure , exhausted people ’s immune systems and increased acute vulnerabilities , said UN Emergency Relief Coordinator Mark Lowcock . 
" As a result , epidemiologists warn that Covid 19 in Yemen could spread faster , more widely and with deadlier consequences than in many other countries , " he said . 
Precautions to reduce the risk from Covid 19 are being hampered by " bureaucratic roadblocks , insecurity and restrictions on staff and cargo movements , " the UN said . 
Funding is another impediment , as 31 of the UN ’s 41 major aid programs in Yemen will shut down in the coming weeks , if they are not supported . 
Lowcock said he is worried about the loss of health teams that have been essential in containing past disease outbreaks . 
" We need these teams more than ever – not just to keep on top of Covid 19 , but to contain a growing risk that cholera will rebound as the rainy season starts , " he said . 
