The numbers : Covid 19 has infected more than 2.1 million people and killed at least 144,000 worldwide , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
At least 671,151 cases have been recorded in the United States , including 33,268 deaths . 
US reopening : President Donald Trump unveiled new guidelines meant to help states loosen social distancing restrictions , telling governors it was their decision on when and how to reopen . 
It 's a three phase approach , with the first including a sustained decrease in cases over a 14 day period and a return to pre crisis conditions in hospitals . 
China 's economy slumps : The world 's second largest economy experienced its worst three month period in decades as the pandemic forced weeks of shutdowns . 
The economy contracted 6.8 % in the first quarter of 2020 compared to a year earlier , according to government statistics . 
World leaders " not warned " : President Trump seemed to suggest during today 's news briefing that world leaders were not adequately warned about the severity of the coronavirus , saying he was " angry " because he and fellow G7 leaders were out of the loop . 
Biden on CNN town hall : Former Vice President Joe Biden said during a CNN coronavirus town hall that the US will have to look at the economy " totally differently than we have before " and that it was a " false choice " to have to choose between the economy and peoples ' health . 
Germany 's new normal : As the government lifts some restrictions previously imposed to limit the spread of coronavirus , German Health Minister Jens Spahn said the country will not be " like it was before . " 
The reopening will happen " step by step " he said . 
Michael Cohen release : President Trump ’s former personal attorney will be released early from prison due to the pandemic , according to people familiar with the matter and his lawyer . 
Cohen is serving a three year sentence at the federal prison camp in Otisville , New York , where 14 inmates and seven staff members have tested positive for the virus . 
