The number of coronavirus cases worldwide has topped 71,000 , according to the latest numbers from China 's National Health Commission . 
Here 's the latest : The numbers : 98 additional deaths were reported in mainland China on Monday , China ’s National Health Commission said as of Monday -- including 93 in Hubei province . 
The global death toll is 1,873 , including five people outside mainland China . 
Diamond Princess : Another 99 cases have been confirmed aboard the quarantined Diamond Princess cruise ship in Japan . 
The US has evacuated more than 300 Americans from the ship , 14 of which have tested positive for the virus . 
Canada , Italy and Hong Kong are also sending flights for their citizens . 
Westerdam : An American woman was confirmed to have the virus , after almost 1,500 fellow passengers departed the ship docked in Cambodia for onward travel . 
Some 92 American citizens are still on board the Westerdam , and 260 in hotels in Phnom Penh . 
Decline in new cases : Recent data from around the world — and in particular from China — appear to show a decline in new cases . 
The World Health Organization says the new data must be analyzed " cautiously . " 
Travelers denied entry to US : At least 140 travelers were denied entry to US due to coronavirus outbreak . 
Fourteen foreign nationals were turned away at US airports and 126 people were refused entry at land ports from February 2 to 12 , according to data from the Department of Homeland Security . 
Not a pandemic : Michael Ryan , executive director of the World Health Organization ’s Health Emergencies Program , said the organization is still not classifying the coronavirus outbreak a " pandemic " because they were not seeing an " efficient community transmission outside of China . " 
Travel restrictions : Almost half of China 's population -- 780 million people -- is living under some form of travel restrictions , as authorities attempt to contain the novel coronavirus outbreak . 
Restrictions of varying degrees are being enforced in various provinces and cities across mainland China including Hubei , Liaoning , Beijing and Shanghai . 
