The Austrian capital , Vienna , has recorded 306 new infections within the past 24 hours . 
Austria reported 1,028 new infections on Tuesday , bringing its total to 57,324 , according to the country 's public health authority , the Agency for Health and Food Safety ( AGES ) . 
Authorities there say 611 Covid 19 patients are being treated in hospital , 107 of whom are in intensive care units . 
Austria ’s death toll stands at 861 , the tally shows . 
Last week , Austria recorded 1,209 new cases in 24 hours -- its highest daily increase since the outbreak began , surpassing the record set in March when the initial wave of infections was at its peak . 
The country has seen a gradual rise in daily coronavirus infections since late June . 
In March this year , popular ski resorts in the western Austrian province of Tyrol were identified as one of the hotspots in spreading the coronavirus across Europe . 
An Austrian expert commission on Monday criticized the country 's Chancellor , Sebastian Kurz , for what they said was his government 's poor handling of the crisis . 
Crowds of people potentially infected with Covid 19 were allowed to leave the resorts of Ischgl and St . Anton in March -- helping to spread the virus across Europe -- before officials announced quarantine measures . 
Ronald Rohrer , head of the panel appointed by the province of Tyrol to look into Austria 's handling of the outbreak , told reporters this was " a wrong decision , from an epidemiological perspective . " 
Kurz announced a quarantine on March 13 , but his government had not informed the local authorities which had to implement the measures , the commission found . 
The Austrian Chancellor said foreign tourists would be allowed to leave , but according to the commission , this led to a panicked rush instead of an orderly departure . 
In September , Kurz said that the country 's upcoming ski season would go ahead , but that apres ski parties will be banned to try and curb the spread of coronavirus . 
