Chinese health authorities will include asymptomatic cases of the novel coronavirus in their official count starting Wednesday , according to an announcement on Tuesday . 
The move comes amid growing public concern over asymptomatic cases , of which 1,541 were under medical observation in China by the end of Monday , according to the National Health Commission ( NHC ) . 
This includes including 205 cases imported from overseas . 
Officials will also further tighten screening and quarantine rules targeting asymptomatic cases -- defined as people who have tested positive for the virus without displaying any symptoms -- said Chang Jile , a senior official with the NHC , at a press conference in Wuhan . 
Until now , asymptomatic cases have not been counted as confirmed cases under Chinese government guidelines . 
Asymptomatic cases – as well as their close contacts – will be isolated for 14 days immediately upon discovery . 
Their quarantine will only be lifted after they twice test negative for coronavirus , in tests administered 24 hours apart . 
If they develop symptoms during isolation , they will become confirmed cases and undergo treatment at designated hospitals . 
On Monday , a taskforce on the virus chaired by Premier Li Keqiang , the country ’s deputy leader , urged " placing priority on asymptomatic cases , from detection , contact tracing , to isolation and treatment , in order to lock in previous gains and plug potential loopholes in the containment , " according to a government statement . 
A woman in Henan province in central China was infected with the deadly virus last week after coming in contact with a friend , a local doctor who was later identified as an asymptomatic case . 
As the Chinese government prepares to lift lockdown measures at the original epicenter of the pandemic , the Henan story has stirred intense interest and anxiety over how infectious asymptomatic carriers are , and whether the authorities have been transparent enough in reporting such cases . 
