If you 're just joining us , here are the latest developments . 
UK Prime Minister still in intensive care : British leader Boris Johnson is in a " stable " condition in intensive care at the hospital where he is being treated for coronavirus , junior health minister Edward Argar said today . 
" He ’s comfortable and in good spirits . 
He has -- in the past -- had some oxygen but he ’s not on ventilation , " Argar said . 
UK sourcing ventilators from the US : Speaking to Sky News , Argar also said the UK was trying to source 18,000 ventilator machines , almost double the number it currently has . 
Some will be coming from the US , he added , despite criticism from many US states that they do not have enough ventilators . 
More than 10,000 deaths in France : The death toll continues to climb in the country , with over 10,300 fatalities in total , as of Wednesday morning . 
France has now reported more than 110,000 cases of the virus . 
French economy shrinks by 6 % : The coronavirus outbreak has severely affected France 's economy , which contracted by 6 % in the first quarter , according to the central bank . 
A study by the bank estimated the economy shrinks 1.5 % for each fortnight of confinement . 
Singapore bans public gatherings : The ban applies to both public and private gatherings in the Southeast Asian city state and is scheduled to run until May 4 . 
Passengers to be evacuated from cruise ships : Australian and New Zealand passengers aboard the Greg Mortimer cruise ship will be evacuated , after more than 60 % of people onboard the vessel were confirmed to have coronavirus . 
Uruguay is helping to facilitate the evacuation . 
Trump says WHO is " China centric " : In a tweet Tuesday , President Donald Trump said that the World Health Organization " really blew it " on the coronavirus and threatened to withdraw its US funding . 
Speaking later at a news conference , Trump said his administration was " going to look into it . " 
Japan officially enters a state of emergency : Japan entered a state of emergency on Tuesday in seven virus hit prefectures including Tokyo . 
The government today reversed its decision to exclude the adult entertainment industry from its virus economic relief package . 
