The State Department is tracking approximately 13,500 US citizens abroad who are seeking assistance in being repatriated , a senior State Department official said Monday . 
The official said the State Department is examining a variety of means to get those citizens home , saying that " no option is foreclosed out . " 
They said the State Department ’s Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs is working with private charters to get them into places to help with repatriation efforts . 
" We are using some cases — and I expect this will be happening in expanded fashion as we go out from here – we ’re using what 's called the K Fund . 
It 's a special fund authorized by Congress to allow us to meet unexpected emergencies , " they said on a call with reporters . 
" We have organized a number of flights already on the K Fund , K Fund charters . " 
" We 're looking at 16 or so flights in the next five days . 
And we 've got additionally about 1,600 passengers , over 1,600 passengers identified for those flights with room for more , " they said . 
They said that in addition to the K Fund charters , they are using DOD backhauls in some cases . 
" We 're also working with the Department of Homeland Security . 
They 're flying planes into Central America , and they are prepared to bring folks back on those aircraft . 
So it 's a variety of different US government aircraft , " they said . 
The official said they are prioritizing space on the flights for those with vulnerabilities , such as age and medical conditions . 
" If we have somebody who is 70 years old with an underlying condition , such as diabetes or heart disease , that person is going to get a higher priority on one of those flights , than the hale and hearty 20 year old , " they said . 
That official said about 5,700 people had been brought back , and " the great majority of those were coming back through State Department chartered aircraft . " 
They cited the 800 + brought back from Wuhan in late January , the 300 + from Yokohama and " approximately 1200 came out of Morocco last week . " 
They said they " had other people come out of Central America recently . " 
