Arizona State University ( ASU ) has sued Facebook in a US federal court over the company ’s lack of cooperation in providing details and taking down an Instagram account that was advertising " Covid parties " and spreading misinformation about the school ’s response to the disease , court records show . 
Instagram is owned by Facebook . 
The backstory : In July , ASU became aware of an Instagram account that promoted Covid 19 parties , the school said in a statement . 
The account urged followers to avoid social distancing , and not to wear face coverings for the upcoming fall semester . 
What ASU did : Lawyers for the school reached out to Instagram in early August in an effort to take the account down , arguing that it was using the university ’s logo and trademarks without permission , court records show . 
However , Instagram told the school that " it is not clear that the content you ’ve reported infringes your trademark rights , " according to an email exchange in the suit . 
An Instagram employee told ASU ’s attorney that it did not appear that the content was likely to confuse people about the source , sponsorship or affiliation . 
Russia connection : In addition to the misinformation , the school ’s initial investigation indicated that the people behind the account could be in Russia , according to the lawsuit . 
The university felt that someone was using the account to " sow confusion and conflict and to interfere with the health of the Arizona State University community by trying to worsen the pandemic here . " 
The school filed a lawsuit , alleging trademark infringement , on August 20 . 
When asked about the lawsuit , a Facebook company spokesperson said that they " have removed the account in question for violating our policies . " 
Facebook disagreed that the account infringed on any ASU trademark rights , and would not comment on the account ’s origin , citing user privacy reasons . 
Despite the account going down , ASU said that it would press on with the litigation . 
