The UK has imposed a mandatory 14 day quarantine on international passengers arriving in the country , beginning on Monday . 
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has been criticized for not implementing such a restriction at the beginning of the pandemic , with UK airlines jointly bringing legal action against the government . 
There are some exceptions to the quarantine rules . 
Truck drivers , frontline healthcare workers and elite athletes coming for bio secure soccer or cricket matches or F1 's British Grand Prix in late July will all be exempt . 
Everyone else will be required to fill out a form prior to arrival , providing the government with an address at which they plan to isolate for two weeks . 
While £ 1,000 ( $ 1,260 ) fines will be imposed on those who breach the conditions in the UK , only a fifth of travelers are expected to get spot checks . 
Some conditions of the quarantine have further fueled questions over its likely effectiveness . 
Travelers arriving in the country will be able to go to their destination on public transport , and to leave their accommodation to shop for essentials . 
Elsewhere in Europe : It comes as Spain enters the final phase of de escalation in the Covid 19 crisis before the government ’s plan for a " new normality " sets in . 
More than half of the country has advanced to Phase 3 , with the rest in Phase 2 , including Madrid and Barcelona . 
Those in regions in Phase 3 can travel within their territories , exercise as much as they like outdoors , attend gatherings of up to 20 people and visit beaches with social distancing . 
Restaurants , movie theaters and stores may open at 50 % capacity and clubs and bars will be able to operate at a third of capacity , but dancing will not be allowed . 
Bullfighting events , weddings and funerals will be allowed with limits on attendees . 
No shared menus , napkin dispensers , or saltshakers will be permitted at bars and restaurants Ireland today entered Phase Two of its roadmap to ease lockdown restrictions . 
On Friday , Irish Prime Minister ( Taoiseach ) Leo Varadkar announced an acceleration of the country ’s roadmap based on " medical evidence " and " government reports . " 
Irish people may now move freely within their county . 
People living on the border of two counties may cross 20km over the border . 
Citizens may meet in groups of 6 people indoors and outdoors , while keeping to a social distance of 2 meters . 
All retail has reopened , with staggered opening hours and social distancing measures in place . 
Groups of up to 15 may attend sports training and up to 25 may attend funerals . 
Libraries have reopened . 
Playgrounds may reopen and outdoor summer camps for children in groups of 15 can take place . 
Working from home is encouraged where possible . 
Phase Three is scheduled for June 29 , when restaurants will reopen and all domestic travel restrictions lifted . 
As of Monday , Denmark is allowing gatherings of up to 50 people , up from 10 , Danish Health Ministry Press Officer Solveig Røigaard Petersen told CNN . 
According to the Danish Statens Serum Institut , a research institute to prevent and control infectious diseases , 11,940 people in Denmark have contracted coronavirus , with 589 dead in the country . 
