Several European countries , in the throes of a second wave of the pandemic , are witnessing a rise in virus cases , deaths and restrictions . 
Here 's Monday 's latest : Belgium : New rules to prevent the spread of Covid 19 in the Belgian capital , Brussels , come into force today . 
The city 's mayor announced the restrictions on Sunday after Brussels recorded 2,353 infections over seven days and an incidence of 327.7 cases per 100,000 inhabitants over 14 days . 
From today , bars , cafes and restaurants will close at 11 p.m . ; gatherings of more than 10 people in public spaces is banned from 11 p.m . to 6 a.m . ; and food consumption is prohibited in markets . 
From Thursday , it will be compulsory to wear a mask in heavily frequented commercial areas and catering premises , carrying a face mask will be obligatory , and mask wearing will be mandated when entering or leaving schools . 
Germany : A rise in infections " worries us greatly , " said German government spokesman Steffen Seibert . 
Chancellor Angela Merkel is due to meet with the leaders of Germany 's federal states on Tuesday , Seibert said , adding that a possible " traffic light " virus warning scheme would be part of the discussion . 
The country saw an increase of 1,192 infections on Sunday and three deaths , according to the disease control and prevention federal agency , the Robert Koch Institute ( RKI ) . 
At least 285,332 people in Germany have registered as infected since the pandemic started , and there have been 9,460 deaths , according to RKI . 
France : Coronavirus admissions at intensive care units in the Provence Alpes Côte d 'Azur region — which includes France 's second biggest city of Marseille -- have tripled since the beginning of September , according to official statistics . 
Bars and restaurants closed for seven days in the Marseille area , starting Sunday night , due to the deteriorating situation there . 
England : Households in England 's northeast will be banned from mixing indoors under new legislation , UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock told Parliament on Monday . 
He said at the request of local councils legislation will be introduced to ban " indoor mixing between households in any setting . " 
The changes will apply to parts of the country 's northeast where local action was brought in two weeks ago , Hancock explained . 
It comes as the UK government reported at least 4,044 new Covid 19 cases and 13 deaths from the virus in the latest 24 hour period on Monday . 
However , figures typically lag following the weekend . 
On Monday , a legal duty to self isolate if people test positive or are contacted by NHS Test and Trace came into force in England . 
