Wearing masks will continue to be mandatory even after Spain ’s state of emergency is lifted on June 21 , and the country enters a period of " new normality . " 
The Spanish Cabinet approved today a health safety measures decree that will be implemented immediately following the end of the state of emergency . 
The decree law will go to the Spanish Parliament tomorrow , where it 's expected to be approved . 
In it , Covid 19 is declared an " urgent mandatory notifiable disease , " with an emphasis on prevention , containment and coordination to keep the spread of the coronavirus in check . 
Spain ’s 17 regions must continue reporting relevant health information to Madrid to guarantee the National Health System ’s ability to respond to public health emergencies . 
PCR tests must be performed on all suspected Covid 19 carriers as urgently as possible , to contain and prevent any possible future outbreaks . 
Health officials have said that the current time between noticeable symptoms and a diagnosis has been reduced to just two days on average , far quicker than earlier during the height of the pandemic in Spain . 
Provisions to guarantee coordination with the national health system and contingency plans for residences housing seniors and people living with disabilities are to be put in place , in order to facilitate early detection of possible cases among those residents and the workers who take care of them , and to have their contact information readily available . 
Obligatory use of masks in public spaces will continue , with possible fines up to 100 euros for not complying with the measure . 
Spain 's prime minister said on Sunday that this would apply to everyone six years and older . 
Here 's what else to expect , according to the decree : In workplaces and in public spaces , social distancing measures , along with the wearing of masks will continue . 
Airports will have health controls to check international arrivals . 
A national reserve of personal protective equipment , PPE , such as masks and hand sanitizers must be available at all times to guarantee supply . 
The norms outlined in the decree do not have an expiry date . 
The government ’s chief spokesperson and Finance Minister María Jesús Montero said at a press conference Tuesday , that " Although we have better control of the illness , and we ’re better prepared as a country , until we have a vaccine , or an effective treatment , the virus will continue being a threat to our security . " 
