Coronavirus ’s spread through the Middle East could add another layer of woes to a region already plagued by problems . 
In the Levant , the virus could take root in one of the refugee camps that speckle the landscape . 
The camps are densely populated and already suffer from poor living conditions , scant medical attention and decaying infrastructure . 
Economic crises in countries like Lebanon , where the health sector has already warned that it is on the brink of collapse , or Syria , could mean that millions are defenseless in the face of pathogen . 
In Iran , the outbreak is the worst in the region , and it has intensified the country ’s isolation . 
Viewed as a regional breeding ground for the virus , Iran is being sealed off from its neighbors , further crippling an economy already buckling under US sanctions . 
The country ’s rift from the rest of the region is becoming more pronounced . 
Land borders with neighboring Iraq and Afghanistan have been closed . 
Numerous flights to Iranian cities have been suspended . 
The country ’s officials are seething . 
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani warned the virus could be used as a " weapon " in " propaganda " by " Iran ’s enemies . " 
The Iranian leader has refused to quarantine cities in a bid , he said , not to further stifle the economy . 
Symbolically , the country ’s deputy health minister , Iran Harirchi , tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday — just 24 hours after a press briefing where he tried to downplay the threat of the virus . 
Rich Arab Gulf countries – such as the UAE , Bahrain and Kuwait — that have confirmed cases of novel coronavirus may have the wherewithal to stem the tide of the sickness . 
But most countries in the region are running on fumes . 
Between trying to keep the virus at bay , and stemming the economic toll brought on by panic about its spread , they are between a rock and a hard place . 
They see that even the advanced countries of Europe have failed to outrace the virus . 
So they live on a prayer that the coronavirus tidal wave veers in another direction . 
