Although the infection fatality ratio – or , how many people who are infected with Covid 19 die from it – sounds low , it is actually " quite high , " especially when compared with other pandemics , according to officials at the World Health Organization . 
There are different ways that mortality can be calculated , and at this point , many groups are looking at the infection fatality ratio – which is the number of deaths among all the people who have been infected , Maria Van Kerkhove , WHO ’s technical lead for coronavirus response , said at a press briefing in Geneva on Monday . 
" Right now , we do not know how many people have been infected because there are challenges with surveillance in detecting every single one of the cases , and certainly there are many unrecognized cases , " Van Kerkhove said . 
While there are challenges , Van Kerkhove said that some studies have estimated the infection fatality ratio at 0.6 % . 
That " may not sound like a lot , but it is quite high , " she said . 
We know that mortality increase with age , and among people with underlying conditions , she said . 
" We must do everything that we can to prevent ourselves , and those individuals , from getting infected , " Van Kerkhove said . 
Dr . Mike Ryan , executive director of WHO ’s Health Emergencies Programme , put some perspective on the 0.6 % infection mortality rate , saying " that 0.6 % is just over 1 in 200 people infected , potentially dying . " 
He did say that this was hugely skewed by age , with the risk being much higher in older ages groups . 
Ryan compared this number with the 2009 H1N1 pandemic , where " it was more like 1 in 10,000 or 1 in 100,000 , " he said . 
" But when you think 1 in 200 versus 1 in 10,000 or 1 in 100,000 , you get a sense of just how more deadly this virus is in communities . " 
This points to the fact , he said , that everyone should try to avoid getting infected . 
" I hope if we focus on that exposure reduction , infection reduction , then we will be talking about mortality going down , " he said . 
