Sitting alongside Chinese President Xi Jinping in Beijing 's Great Hall of the People , World Health Organization director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus was effusive in his praise of the country 's response to the coronavirus crisis . 
This was in late January , after Xi had taken control of the situation due to local officials ' apparent failure to contain the outbreak to Hubei province . 
As the two men met in the Chinese capital , the number of cases was rising , and revelations were emerging that officials in Hubei province and Wuhan -- the city where the virus was first detected -- had sought to downplay and control news about the virus , even threatening medical whistleblowers with arrest . 
Days later , the WHO declared a global public health emergency , and once again Tedros praised Beijing 's response . 
While China did act quickly following Xi 's intervention , placing several major cities on lockdown and pouring resources into the battle against the virus , it has maintained tight control over information about the virus and efforts to control its spread have veered on the side of draconian . 
Taiwan sidelined : The WHO 's praise of China 's response have led critics to question the relationship between the two entities . 
The UN agency relies on funding and the cooperation of members to function , giving wealthy member states like China considerable influence . 
Perhaps one of the most overt examples of China 's sway over the WHO is its success in blocking Taiwan 's access to the body , a position that could have very real consequences for the Taiwanese people if the virus takes hold there . 
Independence questioned : The WHO 's position regarding China has also renewed a longstanding debate about whether the WHO , founded 72 years ago , is sufficiently independent to allow it to fulfill its purpose . 
China 's Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not respond to questions regarding Beijing 's relationship with the WHO . 
A spokesman for the WHO directed CNN to comments made by Tedros this week , when he again praised China for " making us safer . " 
Read more here 
