The utter mess that the Wisconsin primary became shows how the coronavirus pandemic can interfere with our normal election routine . 
Wisconsin is voting in its primary election in the middle of a pandemic . 
Meanwhile , every other state with an election scheduled for April postponed their contest or shifted it to by mail voting only . 
But most voters and election boards are not used to people voting by mail . 
If we want them to for the November elections , we need to prepare now . 
In 2016 , about 59 % of all votes were cast in person on Election Day , and about 17 % voted early in person . 
This means that only about 24 % had their ballots mailed to them . 
Of these , 18 % voted absentee ( i.e . they had to request their ballot ) . 
The other 6 % voted in all mail elections ( i.e . ballots were automatically sent to them ) . 
Most states , however , do allow for voters to receive their ballot by mail without an excuse . 
In total , 33 states allow no excuse require absentee voting ( 28 states including Wisconsin ) or have all mail voting ( 5 states ) . 
These states consist of 65 % of all the electoral votes in the electoral college . 
Of the closest 15 states in 2016 , 91 % of all electoral votes are allotted to states that allow no excuse absentee voting or are all mail . 
There are some notable exceptions that do not allow no excuse absentee voting like New York and Texas ( where there have been efforts to expand voting by mail ) , but they are not the rule . 
This leaves the majority of states with two choices . 
Obviously , there could be drastic moves to shift states to all mail voting ( a step Maryland has been taking ) . 
An easier path is working within the framework of no excuse absentee voting . 
It 's about ensuring that voters understand that they need to request a ballot in most states to get a ballot sent to them . 
It 's about getting election boards the funds and manpower to count ballots that were sent through the mail . 
Without those steps , we could end up with what we 're witnessing in Wisconsin . 
