The novel coronavirus has infected more than 3.4 million people and killed at least 243,000 worldwide . 
If you 're just joining us now , here are the latest developments on the pandemic . 
China 's busy holiday weekend : Mainland China reported no new deaths for the fifth day in a row on Saturday , as people flocked to attractions around the country for the Labour Day weekend . 
One million people visited Shanghai in two days . 
Meanwhile , Harbin City , on the Russia China border , closed all dine in restaurants until further notice , according to state broadcaster CCTV . 
The measures were to prevent crowds gathering over the holiday weekend . 
France 's deaths decline : The daily number of deaths from coronavirus in France continues to decline . 
At least 24,760 people have died there after contracting Covid 19 , an increase of 166 since Friday , the Health Ministry announced Saturday . 
Meanwhile , the French government will extend its state of emergency for another two months . 
But deaths in Brazil climb : Brazil 's Ministry of Health reported 421 deaths from coronavirus in the past 24 hours , with the total death toll now at 6,750 . 
Brazil has the most reported cases in Latin America . 
Warren Buffett shares some optimism : The billionaire investor said he remains convinced that America will recover from the Covid 19 pandemic -- just as it did after other crises during the past century . 
He also announced his company Berkshire Hathaway recently sold its entire stakes in four airlines , calling it a mistake to invest in the industry . 
Thailand lifts alcohol ban : Thailand began to ease some of its month long coronavirus restrictions today , as Covid 19 cases in the country continue to fall . 
Certain businesses such as markets and hairdressers can reopen , train and bus stations can also reopen and bars can sell alcoholic drinks , but people must consume them at home . 
But the Philippines suspends air travel : All passenger and commercial flights to and from the country were suspended today to prevent the spread of coronavirus . 
The Philippines has confirmed 8,928 coronavirus cases and 604 deaths . 
Baby names : UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson has named his newborn son in honor of doctors who treated him for coronavirus . 
The baby 's name is Wilfred Lawrie Nicholas Johnson -- Nicholas is in honor of two doctors who treated Johnson . 
