The largest known concentration of coronavirus cases outside of hospitals is in Chicago ’s Cook County Jail , where at least 276 detainees and 172 staff members have tested positive for the virus . 
Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot says that while the jurisdiction of the jail does not fall under the city , but with the county , Chicago officials have been providing public health assistance . 
" First and foremost , no one should be locked up if they 're not a danger to the community or flight risk and certainly not because they ca not afford to pay bail , " Lightfoot said . 
" But what we have been doing is giving guidance to the sheriff about decompressing the dorm like setting that exists in the jail . " 
Lightfoot also addressed racial disparity among those affected by the virus . 
About 70 % of the deaths in Chicago have been in the African American community , according to the city 's Department of Health . 
" We put together a racial equity rapid response team that is a compendium of public health experts , medical doctors , social workers nurses , and street outreach folks , folks normally out there trying to interrupt violence but have deep roots and connection into these neighborhoods , " she said . 
Lightfoot encourages finding local , credible sources to get updates on the coronavirus , slamming President Trump ’s remarks on the pandemic . 
" What we have seen coming out of the President 's mouth and his daily press conferences is a series of half truths , myths , it is not grounded in facts or science , " she said . 
" And it is terrible because the President of the United States has the loudest megaphone in the world and people want to be relying upon the things he says or does , but unfortunately , you ca not do that with this President . " 
Lightfoot said residents should stay home while celebrating Easter and Passover , even as the city starts to see a flattening of the curve . 
" This is deadly serious . 
And you can express your faith in lots of different ways , but it ca not be by congregating , " she said . 
