Federal law enforcement has disrupted a foreign criminal scheme to fraudulently sell 39 million N95 respirator masks to US health care workers , a Justice Department official said in an interview with CNN . 
Scott Brady , the United States Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania , tells CNN that the Justice Department has launched an investigation into two foreign entities suspected of trying to defraud US health care companies out of millions of dollars as they work to respond to the growing number of coronavirus patients . 
In the past month , one group of scammers attempted to bilk US health care companies by offering the sale of N95 masks and demanding upfront payment of 40 % of the total bulk purchase price of $ 3.50 per mask . 
Part of the ruse involved convincing buyers that some of the masks were already located in the United States and ready for immediate delivery , however , officials believe these representations were fraudulent and no masks actually existed . 
Brady said the fraud was disrupted before any funds were transferred . 
The federal investigation was first reported by the Los Angeles Times . 
The scam was discovered after the Service Employees International Union United Healthcare Workers West ( SEIU ) , a union representing California health care workers on the front lines of the Covid 19 pandemic , publicly announced last month it had located 39 million critically need N95 masks from a supplier , and would be connecting local governments and hospital officials seeking to purchase masks for their employees . 
Brady told CNN the supplier was identified as a man in Pennsylvania , who claimed he was merely a middleman working with two foreign companies — a broker in Australia and a supplier in Kuwait — which are now both under federal investigation . 
The Pennsylvania supplier is cooperating with law enforcement and is not believed to have been knowingly involved in criminal activity . 
Brady noted SEIU and 3M — the maker of N95 masks — have also assisted authorities . 
N95 masks are currently among the most sought after and scarce pieces of personal protective equipment for health care workers treating the thousands of US victims of coronavirus . 
For those contemplating profiting from scams during the pandemic , Brady offered a stark warning . 
" The Department of Justice has a long memory , " he said . 
" If you have victimized and defrauded people , especially in the time of a national crisis , be sure that at some point in the near future , someone will be knocking on your door . " 
