A British man stuck with his wife onboard a cruise ship quarantined off the coast of Japan because of the coronavirus outbreak has criticised Boris Johnson and appealed to billionaire Richard Branson to save them . 
David Abel , who is on the Diamond Princess ship with his wife Sally where more than 200 people have been diagnosed with the disease , said despite being a " staunch Tory " he had " no confidence " in the prime minister . 
Abel said : " When he [ Johnson ] just says ‘ keep calm , do not panic ’ - I ’d like to see you in this situation , mate . 
I really would . " 
In a Facebook live video , he also appealed for Virgin boss Branson to charter a plane to fly all British nationals on the ship home to carry out their quarantine . 
He appealed directly to Branson , saying : " If you and your family were in this situation , what would you do ? 
And please do not say ‘ chill out , stay calm ’ , that ’s not what we want to hear . 
I ’m asking , what would it cost to hire one of your smaller planes , put all the Brits onboard , no flight attendants , packaged food ? 
Take us to Brize Norton , take us straight into the medical facility and let us do our quarantine there by people who can speak our language . " 
Abel added : " I ’m serious , Richard Branson , absolutely serious . 
I think he is the man , he ’s not afraid to speak his mind . 
He ’s the guy who could resolve this for the Brits . " 
He continued : " Whatever the cost , we will somehow find a way of paying for that plane . 
Do not know how but we would not want you to be out of pocket on that . 
But this is just how damned desperate some of the passengers are becoming . " 
The couple said previously that they had declined the offer to leave the ship and continue their quarantine ashore if they test negative for the virus . 
The vessel was quarantined when it arrived in Yokohama , south of Tokyo , at the start of the month after it emerged that a passenger who had disembarked in Hong Kong in late January had tested positive for the disease . 
