House Minority Leader Kevin Mc Carthy called for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to accept the White House ’s offer to deploy rapid testing resources to the Capitol complex . 
Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell jointly declined the offer earlier this year , saying they wanted resources to go to the front lines fighting the virus instead . 
Mc Carthy slammed Pelosi for refusing the offer during his weekly news conference Thursday . 
Mc Connell ’s role in turning down the testing resources was conspicuously absent from Mc Carthy 's remarks . 
He said the Capitol should have tests available not only for members , but also for staff , reporters , and the other workers at the building . 
He said leaders should consider instituting random testing to catch asymptomatic cases . 
" This is not just a campus , the country expects us to convene , " Mc Carthy said . 
He added that he has spoken with the White House to see if their offer still stands , and they said it does . 
" I have checked again with the administration . 
The offer is still there for the rapid Abbott tests , " he said . 
" There ’s more than 50 million tests that have already happened in America . 
But the one place it ’s not happening is in Congress . 
I ca not understand why the speaker continues to refuse . 
Is it just because the offer has come from the administration ? " 
Asked about Republican members not wearing masks over the past couple of months when the House has been in session , Mc Carthy pushed back on the notion that it was a significant number of members and said he believes all members should wear masks . 
He again blamed any safety problems on testing not being readily available in the Capitol . 
Mc Carthy said he has been clear with members to wear their masks , wash their hands , keep distance , and to keep their staff working in the office small . 
He also said reporters do not always follow proper social distancing requirements at the Capitol , and they " hover together quite often . " 
