The numbers : As of 4 p.m in Geneva on Monday , the World Health Organization has recorded 168,019 coronavirus cases and 6,610 deaths globally . 
A separate tally from the Johns Hopkins University , which is tracking cases reported by the WHO and additional sources , puts the number of cases at over 181,500 with at least 7,100 deaths . 
Nearly 79,000 patients have recovered around the world , according to Johns Hopkins . 
China : The country where the pandemic began reported 21 new confirmed cases of coronavirus -- all but one imported from overseas -- and 13 new deaths by end of day on Monday , according to China ’s National Health Commission . 
This brings the death toll in mainland China to 3,226 and total confirmed cases to 80,881 . 
Some 68,679 patients in mainland China have recovered and been discharged from hospitals . 
World in lockdown : Countries all over the world have closed borders , enacted restrictions on travel and daily life , issued bans on public gatherings and told citizens to work from home or not to leave the house . 
US : Cases have surpassed 4,400 and at least 86 people have died . 
The White House recommends people avoid gatherings of more than 10 people , and a growing number of US states and cities have announced widespread mandatory closures as part of attempts to curb the spread of the virus . 
Ohio Gov . 
Mike De Wine said today that the state 's health director will order presidential primary polls closed tomorrow " as a health emergency . " 
Asia : In response to several cases of the virus imported to the city , Hong Kong will require all arriving travelers from foreign countries to be quarantined for 14 days at home . 
Meanwhile , countries in Southeast Asia are issuing far reaching restrictions as cases in the region jump . 
Malaysia will impose a nationwide movement control order , banning citizens from traveling abroad , banning all religious , sports , social , and cultural activities , while foreign tourists and visitors will be restricted from entering the country . 
The Philippines placed half of the country into lockdown on Monday , with all public transportation and offices shut and people told to stay in their homes . 
Europe : The European Commission will introduce temporary restrictions on non essential travel to the EU . 
Germany , Spain , France , Russia and Hungary have closed or will close their land borders , while some 47 million Spanish residents have been banned from leaving their homes . 
Restrictions on public life have been imposed in countries including France and Germany . 
The UK has urged people to stop all non essential contact with others and stop all unnecessary travel . 
