The US Food and Drug Administration has called for a meeting of its vaccine advisory committee in three weeks to consider whether the agency should authorize two Covid 19 vaccines , according to a source familiar with the process . 
The FDA reached out last week to members of its Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee , a group of outside experts , asking them to hold Dec . 8 , 9 and 10 for meetings , according to the source . 
The agency could make a decision at the end of the meeting on Dec . 10 about whether to issue emergency use authorizations for the vaccines , the source said . 
Two companies , Pfizer and Moderna , say they will soon apply to the FDA for authorization for their Covid 19 vaccines , both of which have shown in initial data to be more than 90 % effective against Covid 19 . 
If the FDA authorizes the vaccines , they can then be immediately distributed to states , according to a presentation made last month at the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . 
However , no one can be vaccinated until a CDC advisory committee reviews the data , recommends the vaccine , and says which groups will receive it first . 
If the FDA authorizes the vaccines , the CDC ’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices ( ACIP ) , an independent panel of experts , will meet within 24 to 48 hours , according to a CDC spokesperson . 
At that meeting , the committee will determine if everyone should get the vaccine , or if some people should be excluded . 
It will also decide which groups should get the vaccine first . 
Once ACIP issues its recommendations , vaccinations can be given . 
Next steps : The nation ’s top infectious disease physician , Dr . Anthony Fauci , told CNN earlier this week the first vaccinations in the US could take place " towards the latter part of December . " 
States are currently working out the details of running vaccination clinics . 
The Pfizer vaccine is particularly complicated , since it must be stored at minus 75 degrees Celsius , and doctors ’ offices and pharmacies typically do not have freezers that go that low . 
The first groups expected to receive the vaccine are health care workers , the elderly , essential workers such as police officers , and those with underlying medical conditions . 
