Health officials in Australia 's Victoria state allegedly refused requests for medication from people in pain , lost track of returning travelers and dismissed threats of suicide , an inquiry into Melbourne ’s hotel quarantine system heard on Thursday . 
The inquiry was launched amid allegations that a fresh coronavirus outbreak in the state of Victoria was sparked by some contracted workers not following protocols at hotels used to quarantine international arrivals . 
A nurse contracted to work in three quarantine hotels , identified only as " Jen , " told Thursday 's hearing there were serious questions over the nursing staff ’s training and experience to handle mental health issues among the returning travelers . 
Suicide threat allegedly dismissed : In one incident , Jen said she followed up with the Department of Health and Human Services -- which ran the quarantine program -- to see if they were aware of a situation in which a guest was threatening suicide . 
Jen said she tried to reach the guest via phone but could not get through . 
When she went to check on the guest they were found to be unharmed but in an " anxious " state . 
The employment agency that contracted staff , Your Nursing Agency ( YNA ) , denies the allegation that staff were not trained to deal with mental health issues , and said that all of the mental health nurses provided by YNA Mental health were certified . 
Lost and ripped up documents : Jen said that inadequate record keeping by DHHS meant travelers were not being tracked properly and she resorted to using her own spreadsheet to document who was staying in the hotel . 
In one instance , a family had been in quarantine for a week without being contacted for a welfare check , she said . 
" It was very obvious that DHHS were having a hard time of keeping track of who is in the hotel and when , " she told the inquiry . 
She said that she had made complaints after finding documents ripped up . 
The inquiry on Thursday also heard testimony from a second nurse and a returning traveler . 
Hearings will continue this week . 
