London council leaders have criticised the UK government ’s list of areas where primary schools will not open to pupils next week as having " no logic " . 
Around a million primary school pupils in some of the areas hardest hit by Covid 19 will not return to lessons as planned next week , while the expected staggered reopening of secondary schools in England will also be delayed . 
But the mayor of London , Sadiq Khan , said he was " urgently seeking clarification as to why schools in some London boroughs have been chosen to stay open " while others " just down the road wo not " . 
Other critics included Danny Thorpe , leader of the Royal Borough of Greenwich , which was threatened with legal action by the Government earlier this month after issuing advice to schools to move to online learning for the last few days of term . 
He said in a statement : " In a case by case comparison , there appears to be no logic to how this list was brought together . 
" Kensington and Chelsea has one of the lowest infection rates for the whole of the capital , yet their children and young people are being afforded the extra protection that apparently Royal Greenwich students do not need . 
" While we are very glad that they will benefit from these extra precautions , we can only speculate why this borough was included , yet with an infection rate more than 200 cases higher per 100,000 , Royal Greenwich was not . " 
He said London had been treated as " one area " throughout the pandemic , adding : " To now fragment the capital and ignore that residents are not bound by invisible borders is a massive step backwards in the boroughs ’ combined efforts to fight the virus . " 
Richard Watts , leader of Islington council in north London , said : " We are now seeking urgent clarification from the government about why Islington ’s primary schools are to reopen in the week of 4 January , while those in many other London boroughs will not reopen . 
" It is deeply frustrating that the government has made this announcement at the last minute , just days before the start of term , weeks after it was clear coronavirus cases were surging in London . 
" It also comes just two weeks after the government threatened schools with legal action after some councils , including Islington , advised schools to delay reopening after January , following public health advice over surging coronavirus cases . " 
Philip Glanville , the mayor of Hackney in north east London , said the area should be included on the list where primary schools do not have to reopen . 
