Norway 's public health body ( FHI ) has suspended the use of its coronavirus contact tracing app following an order by the country 's data protection authority over the collection and use of users ’ location data . 
The FHI has also deleted all information collected so far by the app . 
The Norwegian privacy regulator Datailsynet expressed concerns with the way the app , called Smittestopp , collected both GPS location data and Bluetooth data from users . 
Its assessment said the app " can no longer be regarded as a proportionate intervention on users ' basic privacy rights . " 
In a statement , the watchdog said " we believe that FHI has not demonstrated that it is strictly necessary to use location data for infection detection " and recommended that the app only used data collected via Bluetooth instead , pointing out " EU countries have developed infection tracking apps based only on Bluetooth technology , and not GPS location data as well . " 
What the numbers say : According to Johns Hopkins University , there have been 8,639 confirmed cases of Covid 19 and 242 deaths in Norway . 
The app was being tested in three regions of the country , but as the rate of infection in those areas is low , the health authority had said last week it was difficult to test whether the Smittestopp app was notifying " those who may actually have been exposed to infection " . 
The watchdog also questioned the " lack of freedom of choice for users " signing up to the app . 
According to Datailsynet , the data required for tracking infections was also being used for analysis and research , which the regulator said are two different purposes and requires " different personal information . " 
There were also concerns raised about how data collected remained anonymous . 
" A solution for anonymization and aggregation of data for analysis is also not in place , " said Bjørn Erik Thon , Director of Datailsynet in a statement . 
" Still , the app continuously collects personal information from all users , " added Thon . 
The FHI disagreed with the assessment of the regulator . 
In a statement FHI Director Camilla Stoltenberg said that suspending the app would weaken " an important part of our preparedness for increased spread of infection , because we are losing time in developing and testing the app . " 
Stoltenberg warned that the pandemic is not over , adding " without the Smittestopp app , we would be poorly equipped to prevent new outbreaks that may occur locally or nationally . " 
Stoltenberg added : " We hope it will be possible to find a solution so that infection notification and analysis of infection control measures can be introduced in the long term . " 
The FHI has until the June 23 to remedy the issues raised by the regulator . 
