The novel coronavirus has infected more than 3.4 million people and killed at least 244,000 worldwide . 
If you 're just joining us now , here are the latest developments on the pandemic . 
Parks and protests in US : The pandemic drove people across the US outside for recreation and protest . 
While thousands rallied in California , residents of New York City and Washington DC enjoyed warmer weather Saturday while observing social distancing . 
States including Pennsylvania and New Jersey were able to visit some state parks , forest facilities and golf courses for the first time this spring . 
Russia cases spike : Russia reported 10,633 new coronavirus cases in another record single day increase Sunday , bringing the total to 134,687 cases and 1,280 deaths . 
Russia has seen four days of record increases after a week of steady growth . 
Moscow , the country ’s worst hit city , accounts for more than half the cases . 
UK launches app : A contact tracing app will be released this week in the UK as the country 's transport minister suggested people would be encouraged to walk or ride to work when restrictions ease . 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson said doctors had plans in case things went " badly wrong " when he was in hospital with the coronavirus . 
Leaders pledge funds : The leaders of France , Norway , Italy and Germany have pledged to raise an initial $ 8 billion on Monday in an " international alliance " to find a vaccine and treatments for the coronavirus . 
They said more funding would be required to achieve their aim of developing and delivering medicines worldwide . 
China 's busy holiday weekend : Mainland China reported no new deaths for the fifth day in a row Saturday , as people flocked to attractions around the country for the Labour Day weekend . 
Meanwhile , Harbin City , on the Russia China border , closed all dine in restaurants until further notice , according to state run CCTV . 
France 's deaths decline : The daily number of deaths from coronavirus in France continues to decline . 
At least 24,760 people have died from coronavirus , an increase of 166 since Friday , the Health Ministry announced Saturday . 
The French government will extend its state of emergency for another two months . 
Thailand lifts alcohol ban : Thailand began to ease some of its month long restrictions today , as Covid 19 cases continue to fall . 
Businesses such as markets and hairdressers can reopen , train and bus stations can also reopen and bars can sell alcoholic drinks , but people must consume them at home . 
Philippines suspends air travel : All passenger and commercial flights to and from the country were suspended today to prevent the spread of coronavirus . 
The Philippines has confirmed 8,928 coronavirus cases and 604 deaths . 
