An emergency room nurse who works at a hospital in Virginia said the conditions at her hospital are " exceptionally chaotic . " 
The nurse , who requested anonymity , said the rules about the personal protective equipment they are required to wear are changing " if not daily , hourly . " 
She said that nurses and doctors in her hospital who have auto immune disorders and underlying conditions are being asked to wear the same protective equipment – one n95 mask for the entirety of their shift – as healthy nurses and doctors . 
She feels this is putting workers with underlying conditions at higher risk of contracting coronavirus . 
She said last week , hospital staff used N95 masks as they are supposed to be used , one time and then you throw them away . 
This week , they are using the N95 masks until they are soiled because they are running out of supplies . 
She said they are seeing " 60 , 70 , 80 patients " in one shift , " the majority of them have cough , fever , shortness of breath , and you are out there , and you have full garb and you have that one measly mask for all of those patients . " 
She feels like the hospital and the government were not prepared for the outbreak and the needs it would impose on hospitals . 
" They should have been preparing when this outbreak happened in China , " she added . 
In her emergency room , patients who potentially have Covid 19 are waiting in the same waiting room as people coming into the emergency room for other unrelated issues . 
This is where she believes the highest risk is for patients . 
She also said they are not testing patients in her emergency room . 
If you are suspected to have Covid 19 , you are separated into a room with other people who potentially have it . 
She said people are not getting tested unless they meet strict criteria , simply because there are not enough tests to test everyone who has the symptoms . 
" On my shift , I think we tested 10 people yesterday when we should have tested probably 50 to 60 just to identify community spread , " she added . 
She said she ’s also putting her family at risk by being exposed to patients who potentially have Covid 19 every day . 
Her 18 year old daughter is home from college for the rest of the semester since classes have been suspended . 
She said she has not hugged her daughter since this started , for fear she may pass anything on to her . 
