The global toll : There are 382,108 cases of novel coronavirus and 16,574 deaths globally , according to the Johns Hopkins University , which is tracking figures from the World Health Organization and additional sources . 
Hubei ending restrictions : The central Chinese province at ground zero for the novel coronavirus pandemic plans to lift nearly all lockdown restrictions on Wednesday . 
Measures will remain in place in the provincial capital , Wuhan , until April 8 . 
More curfews and restrictions : India has expanded its mammoth lockdown to districts across 30 states and union territories , impacting about two thirds of the population . 
Several Australian states are enacting border checkpoints on Tuesday and Wednesday . 
Albania has entered a strict 16 hour daily curfew . 
Countries across mainland Europe remain under lockdown , and the UK has banned people from leaving home except for " very limited " reasons . 
43 % of US population told to stay at home : At least 16 states have issued stay at home orders , which , once in effect , will impact 142 million people , or 43 % of the US population , according to data compiled by CNN using US Census population estimates . 
There are over 42,600 cases , including at least 540 deaths . 
IMF loans : A dozen countries in the Middle East and Central Asia have reached out to the International Monetary Fund requesting financial support due to the coronavirus outbreak . 
Calls to postpone Olympics : New Zealand athletes became the latest to voice their support for postponing the 2020 Olympic Games , and are backed by the country ’s Olympic committee . 
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is set to hold a call with International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach this evening . 
The situation in Asia : Thailand reported three more deaths and 106 new cases today , taking the national tally to 827 confirmed cases . 
Thai officials are discussing imposing emergency measures . 
Singapore reported its biggest one day surge in cases since the outbreak began . 
Tokyo 's governor warned that Japan 's capital could be placed under lockdown if the number of coronavirus cases spike . 
Myanmar reported its first two cases . 
Beijing will quarantine and test all international arrivals , regardless of destination and Macao will ban most non residents from entering . 
