China plans to lift its lockdown on Wuhan -- ground zero of the coronavirus pandemic -- on April 8 , more than two months after the city was sealed off from the outside world , marking a significant milestone in its battle against the deadly virus . 
Similar lockdown measures will be lifted Wednesday for other cities in Hubei , a central province home to 60 million people , of which Wuhan is the capital -- provincial authorities announced Tuesday . 
Over the past week , there have been signs that the authorities wanted to gradually return life to normal in Wuhan , a city of 11 million people . 
Some residents have been allowed to go back to work as long as their employers issue them a letter , Bo said , adding that he had not been able to because he does not have a company to issue him a letter . 
" I hope we ’ll be allowed to leave our compound soon , " he said . 
Food delivery services have gradually resumed over the past week , according to Bo , and some restaurants inside residential communities have reopened . 
But residents , apart from those returning to work , are still not allowed to leave their compounds , and supermarkets remain closed , he added . 
Easing of restrictions : Starting from Wednesday , people in Hubei , except Wuhan , will be allowed to leave the province if they have a green QR code on their mobile phones , the provincial government said in a notice on Weibo , China ’s Twitter like platform . 
The green code indicates they have no fever , are not a confirmed or suspected case , or a close contact of one . 
On April 8 , the easing of restrictions will be extended to Wuhan , and residents with a green QR code will be able to leave the city and the province . 
People from other parts of China will be allowed to enter Hubei and Wuhan if they can produce a green QR code , with no additional paperwork required . 
Businesses in Wuhan will also gradually resume operations , based on risk assessment , while the reopening dates for schools and universities remain to be determined , authorities said . 
Infections fall to a trickle : The easing of travel restrictions comes as the number of reported new infections in Hubei dropped to zero for five consecutive days from March 19 -- from thousands of daily new cases at the height of the epidemic in February . 
On Tuesday , the province reported one new case in Wuhan , a doctor at the Hubei General Hospital . 
Hubei has accounted for the majority of infections and deaths in China , with 67,801 cases and 3,160 fatalities reported as of Monday . 
Read the full story here : 
