Since mid January , the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has been employing temperature checks at selected airports , at first on people flying in from Wuhan , China , the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak , and now on all passengers who 've been anywhere in mainland China in the past 14 days . 
While the CDC has screened more than 30,000 passengers in the past month , not a single US coronavirus case has been caught by airport temperature checks , according to a CNN investigation . 
CNN reviewed statements by local , state and federal health officials , and emailed and spoke with officials , to determine how many people eventually diagnosed with the novel coronavirus went through airport temperature checks . 
By the numbers : Ten passengers flew into US airports on commercial airliners and were later diagnosed with coronavirus . 
Four of those 10 passengers went through temperature checks and were found not to have a fever or any other symptoms of the virus . 
Two of those passengers flew into Los Angeles International Airport and two flew into San Francisco International Airport . 
Previously , a CDC spokesperson had told CNN that two of the passengers were symptomatic during flight , but the spokesperson later said they were asymptomatic while flying . 
Another four out of the 10 passengers were not screened because they flew into airports that did not have screening at the time . 
Those cases are in Illinois , Washington state , Massachusetts and California . 
It 's unclear whether the final two passengers went through temperature checks because health officials at the CDC and in Wisconsin and Arizona refused to say when asked by CNN . 
How the screening works : The temperature checks are part of an overall screening effort that includes giving passengers cards telling them to watch out for fever , cough and trouble breathing , all symptoms of the novel coronavirus disease , also called COVID 19 . 
While airport temperature checks have not caught any coronavirus cases , the information cards have helped catch US cases of the virus at least twice – once in a passenger who flew into San Francisco , and once in a passenger who flew into Los Angeles . 
See family 's emotional reunion after coronavirus quarantine : 
