At least 2,009 people have now died from the novel coronavirus , the vast majority of them in mainland China . 
China 's Health Commission announced 136 new deaths since Monday , bringing the countrywide toll to 2,004 . 
Here 's the latest : Cases pass 1,000 outside China : More than 1,000 people have now been infected with the virus outside mainland China . 
Japan and Singapore are still seeing a steady rise in cases , with the Ministry of Health in Tokyo reporting seven new infections on Tuesday . 
Cruise ship disembarks : After weeks under quarantine in Japan , the passengers of the Diamond Princess will begin to disembark today . 
It will take days to get all those onboard off the ship , but it will be a relief for the cruise goers who have tested negative for the coronavirus . 
More than 500 of their fellow passengers have already been diagnosed with the virus . 
But the US embassy in Tokyo said in a statement Wednesday that there was still a " high risk " of exposure and so no one was allowed to return to the US from the ship for a further 14 days . 
Canada evacuation : A chartered airplane that will evacuate Canadian citizens from the Diamond Princess is on its way , according to Global Affairs Canada . 
The flight is expected to depart Tokyo Haneda Airport on Thursday . 
Westerdam waits : Meanwhile , test results are pending for 1,000 crew and passengers waiting aboard the Westerdam cruise ship in Cambodia . 
One passenger is said to have tested positive for the virus by Malaysian authorities after she was transiting through the country . 
Passengers from the ship disembarked in Cambodia on Friday after being refused entry at several ports . 
Positive spin : Chinese state run media is pushing the message that the worst of the crisis is over . 
In a phone call with the UK prime minister Tuesday , Chinese President Xi Jinping said there was " visible progress . " 
According to state news agency Xinhua , Xi said that the epidemic had now reached a " crucial time . " 
US calls for transparency : Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Tuesday that the US is " hopeful " that China will increase its transparency in sharing information about the virus . 
" We hope that every country that has information , this includes China , will be completely open and transparent . 
It took us too long to get the medical experts into country , " Pompeo said at a joint news briefing in Addis Ababa , Ethiopia . 
Vaccine in the works : A vaccine for the novel coronavirus could take 12 to 18 months , WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said Tuesday during a news briefing . 
But a vaccine is preparing for " the worst situation , " he said , and for now , long term preparation needs to be balanced with immediate public health solutions that contain the virus and keep the fatality rate low . 
