Eric Trump , son of President Donald Trump , is not a doctor . 
Or an infectious disease expert , And it shows . 
Here 's Eric Trump discussing his father 's recovery from Covid 19 during an appearance on ABCs " This Week " on Sunday with host Jonathan Karl ( bolding is mine ) : Eric Trump : " Yes . 
Listen , that first day he got hit hard , first day Friday . 
And I can tell you as son , it 's never fun watching your father fly off to Walter Reed on Marine One , right ? 
I mean , that 's something that -- it 's a day that no son wants to , again , remember . 
It 's -- that 's no fun to watch . 
" But I 'm telling you I spoke to him three times that next Saturday . 
The guy sounded 100 % . 
It was amazing . 
It actually probably goes to speak to how good some of these vaccines that are being created are and what my father 's done on the vaccine front , no one could have done . 
No one could have done . 
" I mean , literally , Biden was calling my father xenophobic for shutting down America from travel to China -- I mean , and the virus came from China . 
My father , literally , started day one creating this vaccine . 
He worked to push this vaccine . 
And now my father just took it . 
And you see how well he got over it -- Jonathan Karl : Wait , wait . 
Can you -- Trump : -- an inspiration . 
I think -- as Americans , Jon , we should be very proud of that . 
Karl : Can you clarify that ? 
You said your father just took a vaccine ? 
Trump : Meaning when he was in Walter Reed , the medicines that he was taking . 
Karl : The therapeutics ? 
Trump : -- he felt horrible . 
And on Saturday -- again , I spoke to the man three times on Saturday and he sounded tremendous . 
And I think it goes to show the power of medicine in this country and how far that we 've come on Covid in the last six , seven months . 
Holy cow ! 
There 's a vaccine for Covid 19 ? 
This is great news ! 
Or , well , no . 
See , either Eric Trump let the biggest cat out of the bag ever -- that the President was given a " vaccine " for Covid 19 -- or he is simply confused about the difference between medicines designed to help mitigate the course of the virus and an actual vaccine . 
( HINT : It 's the latter . ) 
Read the full analysis : 
