Outside of Asia , one of the worst outbreaks of the novel coronavirus is in Italy . 
Around 100,000 people in the northern regions of Lombardy and Veneto are facing travel and other restrictions as the country struggles to contain a sudden spike in cases that has seen at least 229 confirmed cases and seven deaths . 
Where are the cases ? 
The majority of the deaths and cases are in Lombardy , not far from Milan , the region 's capital and a tourist hotspot that 's a center of industry and fashion . 
Strict emergency measures : Restrictions were put in place over the weekend , including a ban on public events in at least 10 municipalities , after a spike in confirmed cases in Lombardy and Veneto . 
Tourist attractions have been closed , private meetings banned and schools shut . 
People inside these areas are being asked to stay inside and avoid contact with others . 
Football postponed : Four Serie A fixtures were called off over the weekend as Italian soccer faced the threat of further postponements due to the coronavirus outbreak . 
Source of virus in Italy unknown : Italy still has not identified " patient zero , " the source of the coronavirus outbreak in the country , two officials said Monday . 
Borrelli suggested an explanation for the sudden spike in cases over the weekend : " I believe that the incubation period meant that the infections all exploded at a certain moment . " 
Panic buying : Attilio Fontana , Lombardy 's president , has urged residents to stay calm and stop panic buying , saying " rushing to stock up on food does not make any sense . 
There are enough supplies . " 
EU sends aid : In a statement Monday , the European Commission said it was providing aid worth $ 250 million to affected regions and sectors of the EU . 
The Commission added that it was stepping up support for member states following developments in Italy . 
Health experts head to Italy : A team of health experts from the World Health Organization and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control arrived in Italy on Monday , to assist local authorities . 
Borders open : While countries like Germany , Switzerland and Austria are not imposing travel restrictions on people coming from Italy , fears will remain over Europe 's ability to contain a crisis like this . 
The combination of the continent 's relatively open borders and a highly infectious virus that experts say can spread without a carrier showing any sign of symptoms means that the potential is there for the situation to quickly worsen . 
Read more on the Italian outbreak here . 
