At least 20 journalists have died and more than 50 are currently infected with Covid 19 in Peru , according to Peru ’s National Journalists Association ( ANP ) . 
Many of the victims were working in the country ’s most affected regions , Zuliana Lainez , ANP 's secretary general , told CNN on Tuesday . 
These journalists were also more at risk due to their employment conditions , Lainez added . 
Eight of the 20 victims were not full time workers . 
" Our colleagues based in the regions and not in the capital do not have an organization behind them to provide ( personal protective equipment ) , many of them have been going to hospitals and markets just with home made masks , " Lainez explained ANP has asked the government to supply freelance journalists with PPE equipment so they can continue their work in the field . 
In Peru ’s capital , Lima , larger media organizations improved conditions for media workers just a few weeks ago , Lainez claimed . 
" Even a month after the lockdown , our colleagues were still interviewing people half meter away from the interviewee in crowded markets . 
Now they have finally started to use long microphones for example , but this is only after a photographer from a TV station died , " Lainez said . 
But the former president of Peru ’s Public TV and Radio institute ( IRTP ) and journalist Hugo Coya estimates that the figures of journalists among Covid 19 victims could be much higher . 
" There are a lot of them who do not belong to any union and work as freelancers , so they are not officially accounted for anywhere , " Coya argues . 
Some background : Peru ’s Ministry of Transport and Communications approved a health protocol for TV and Radio employees at the end of May . 
The protocol establishes measures related to disinfection and use of PPE equipment for TV and radio employees , according to a statement released by Peru ’s Radio and Television Advisory Council ( Concor TV ) . 
The document also states that radio and television companies are responsible for monitoring the health condition of their workers , while the Ministry is responsible for monitoring any breaches to the guidelines . 
But the directive does not include print journalists as the ministry is in charge of regulating only the radio and television industry , a member of the council ’s communications team clarified . 
Peru has the second highest number of coronavirus cases in Latin America , following Brazil . 
EDITOR 'S NOTE : This post has been updated to remove a photo of a cemetery near Lima that was used in error . 
