Health officials say 71 people infected with the novel coronavirus in California 's Sacramento County are connected to a single church , making it one of the largest outbreak clusters in the United States . 
But despite dozens falling ill , and one death , church leaders have rebuffed demands to halt gatherings , officials say . 
The outbreak occurred at Bethany Slavic Missionary Church in Rancho Cordova , where members of the church and others associated with the congregation are confirmed to have been infected with the virus , Sacramento County health officials said . 
The church is a large and influential institution among the Northern California slavic community . 
The head pastor , Reverend Adam Bondaruk , has also contracted the virus , according to associate Pastor Ivan Gavrilyuk . 
Gavrilyuk told CNN that the church suspended services two weeks ago in accordance with health regulations . 
He would not confirm if the person who died from complications of the virus was a member of the congregation . 
In a statement to CNN on Thursday night , the church said it believed in complying with government regulations . 
Here 's what they said : Health officials want more help : County health officials said they are frustrated that the church leaders wo not work with the department to prevent further spread of the virus . 
In an interview with the Sacramento Bee , Sacramento County Health Director Dr . Peter Beilenson said the church " basically told us to leave them alone . " 
The health department believes the virus is being spread during Bible study and fellowship meetings in small groups at congregants homes . 
County health spokeswoman Janna Haynes said they are very concerned about the upcoming holidays of Palm Sunday and Easter -- when church members and their families traditionally get together to celebrate -- and is deploying translators to plead with the Russian speaking community to stay home . 
Haynes said some of those they are attempting to reach do not monitor mainstream news outlets and have not gotten the message about isolation . 
In an interview Thursday night on the local Russian language radio station , Ethno FM , and translated for CNN , church Pastor Pavel Gurzhiy reportedly downplayed the seriousness of the situation . 
