Doctors dosed a healthy volunteer on Monday with an antibody treatment developed by Eli Lilly and Chinese company Junshi Biosciences to fight Covid 19 . 
The trial is underway in China . 
Lilly will start a complementary Phase one study in the United States in the next few days , the company said . 
Scientists will first test to see if this antibody treatment , called JS016 , is safe to be used in humans . 
If so , it will be tested to see if it if effective . 
If this first phase is successful , more trials will run to determine how to use it most effectively . 
The companies will also experiment to see if the antibody could be used on its own or if it would be more effective used in combination with other antibody candidates . 
JS016 appeared to neutralize the virus in the lab . 
Lilly and Junshi scientists are testing other potential antibodies in the lab to see which work best . 
This is the second such antibody therapy trial from the Indianapolis based pharmaceutical company . 
Lilly is testing another antibody treatment called LY COV555 that the company developed with Ab Cellera . 
Junshi Biosciences is leading development in greater China , according to Lilly , and Eli Lilly has exclusive rights to it in the rest of the world . 
There are several other companies trying to create antibody therapies to fight Covid 19 , including Regeneron Pharmaceuticals , which has said it expects to begin clinical trials this month . 
Some background : Antibodies are proteins your body makes in the thousands that naturally fight off infection . 
To make an antibody therapy , scientists have to sort through thousands of antibodies to determine which work best to neutralize a particular threat . 
Typically , drug developers will pick one and then clone it until there are enough monoclonal antibodies to put in a medicine . 
Antibody treatments are currently used to treat some cancers , eye problems , chronic and infectious disease . 
The treatments can be used to treat symptoms or potentially as a protective medicine to prevent infection in vulnerable populations like the elderly or in health care workers . 
