Editor 's note : Frida Ghitis , a former CNN producer and correspondent , is a world affairs columnist . 
The opinions expressed here are hers . 
The highly contagious virus is a minefield of ethical , political and moral dilemmas . 
That it emerged in China , a country ruled by an authoritarian , politically repressive regime , wrapped the crisis in a uniquely chilling atmosphere . 
Governments , public health experts and private firms are trying to figure out how to respond to the crisis , which has unsurprisingly created a multitude of tough decisions . 
China 's response : China 's decision to put nearly 60 million people under lockdown in and around Wuhan is unprecedented and highly controversial . 
When a local doctor , Li Wenliang , tried to raise the alarm in December , authorities detained him and accused him of spreading rumors . 
He died of the virus last week . 
Then a citizen journalist , Chen Qiushi , providing critical reporting from Wuhan , suddenly disappeared . 
Another citizen journalist was reportedly arrested on Monday amid reports of a growing number of arrests for criticism of the government 's handling of the crisis . 
But it 's not just China 's response that has raised questions . 
Whenever a contagion becomes so serious that the word " quarantine " becomes part of the discussions , the ethical cost of such prevention casts a shadow on every decision . 
Quarantine quandary : Quarantine is a frontal assault on freedom . 
It literally deprives individuals of their liberties for the sake of the larger community , raising countless difficult questions . 
How much power should authorities have over the daily lives of individuals ? 
How much should individuals sacrifice for the sake of the community ? 
How far should the state go in enforcing restrictions ? 
Should people go to jail for violating a confinement to which they are forced because of no fault of their own ? 
What to do when someone becomes ill on a ship holding thousands of healthy passengers ? 
If you decide to keep the passengers on board , who will bring their food ? 
How will they be protected ? 
Read the full op ed here . 
