Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison has announced that his government will be " evacuating all Australians out of the Hubei province " amid the Wuhan coronavirus outbreak . 
Morrison said they 'll be " focusing on the young , especially infants and the elderly " for repatriation . 
There are more than 600 Australian citizens in the province of Hubei , including its capital city of Wuhan , according to CNN affiliate Nine News . 
" This will be done in a last in , first out basis , " Morrison said , adding that they are looking into " those who have been there who do not have established support infrastructure in where they are living . " 
The operation , which will be aided by Australian flag carrier Qantas Airways , is still tentative , however . 
" I want to stress that we cannot give a guarantee that this operation is able to succeed , " Morrison said . 
" I also want to stress very clearly that we may not be in a position if we ’re able to do this on one occasion to do it on another . " 
The move comes as Australia raised its travel advice to " reconsider all travel " to China , due to concerns over the coronavirus . 
Controversy of Christmas Island used as a quarantine Morrison said that " Christmas Island will be used as a quarantine area , " for returning Australians from Hubei . 
While the Australian citizens will wait out their quarantine on the Pacific island before heading home , the use of Christmas Island to house them has drawn uneasy comparisons with the plight of refugees who have been detained there . 
Australia has a strict border protection policy and sends all asylum seekers arriving on its shores by boat to detention centers for processing -- Christmas Island houses one such facility . 
There have been repeated allegations of abuse and even torture of those held in Australia 's offshore detention centers . 
Morrison said that Australian returnees who do arrive on the island , " would be there , we envisage , for up to 14 days . 
But that will be subject to the medical advice we receive . " 
He said that measure would be put in place to ensure support is " provided directly to the Christmas Island community completely separate and quarantined from the support that is being provided in the quarantine zone . " 
