The first Phase 3 clinical trial of a coronavirus vaccine in the United States began Monday . 
The investigational vaccine was developed by the biotechnology company Moderna and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , part of the National Institutes of Health . 
The trial is to be conducted at nearly 100 US research sites , according to Moderna . 
The first patient was dosed at a site in Savannah , Georgia . 
The trial is expected to enroll about 30,000 adult volunteers and evaluates the safety of the Moderna/NIH vaccine and whether it can prevent symptomatic Covid 19 after two doses , among other outcomes . 
Volunteers will receive either two 100 microgram injections of the vaccine or a placebo about 28 days apart . 
Investigators and participants will not know who has received the vaccine . 
Phase 1 results found immune responses : Results from a Phase 1 trial of the vaccine published earlier this month in the New England Journal of Medicine found it induced immune responses in all of the volunteers and was generally safe . 
It had mild side effects , including fatigue , chills , headache , muscle pain , pain at the injection site . 
A Phase 1 study typically studies a small number of people and focuses on whether a vaccine is safe and elicits an immune response . 
In Phase 2 , the clinical study is expanded and the vaccine is given to people who have characteristics -- such as age and physical health -- similar to those for whom the new vaccine is intended , according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . 
In Phase 3 , the vaccine is given to thousands of people and tested for efficacy and again for safety . 
The Moderna/NIH vaccine is one of 25 in clinical trials around the world , according to the World Health Organization . 
Moderna is one of several companies that received support from Operation Warp Speed , the federal government ’s Covid 19 vaccine program . 
On Sunday , Moderna announced it had received an additional $ 472 million from the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority for Phase 3 study and development of its Covid 19 vaccine , bringing the total to $ 955 million . 
