Thousands stuck in limbo off California : Passengers and crew aboard a cruise ship off the California coast will discover their fate later today , when officials get results from dozens of coronavirus tests . 
The California Air National Guard dropped off test kits by helicopter yesterday after learning that the first person to die of the virus in the state previously traveled on the Grand Princess liner . 
" This is not a drill , " says WHO : The director general of the World Health Organization has warned governments that the coronavirus spread is " not a drill . " 
It said significant action would be required to contain the outbreak as the number of people infected nears 100,000 and deaths top 3,300 , with clusters continuing to expand in South Korea , Japan , parts of Europe , Iran and the United States . 
Panic buying forces stores to limit purchases : Retailers are taking drastic action to limit the number of products each person can buy as customers stockpile goods over coronavirus fears . 
Costco Australia is capping sales of toilet tissue , disinfectant , milk , eggs and rice ; 
Kroger is restricting purchases of cold and flu related products and Home Depot of face masks in the US ; and UK pharmacy Boots is limiting hand sanitizer purchases . 
Testing expands in the US as cases top 200 : As the number of coronavirus cases rises in the United States , federal health officials are expanding testing for the fast moving outbreak . 
Vice President Mike Pence , who is leading the administration 's response to the outbreak , acknowledged Thursday there was a shortfall in the number of testing kits required to meet demand . 
Coronavirus crash wipes $ 9 trillion off stocks : Global markets slumped again on Friday , tracking heavy losses on Wall Street and staging a repeat of last week 's plunge after growing signs that the outbreak will lead to a sharp economic downturn . 
About $ 9 trillion has been wiped off global stocks in nine days , Bank of America said in a research note after US markets closed deep in the red again on Thursday . 
And if you 're told to self quarantine , here 's what you need to know . 
