British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has pledged that the UK 's contact tracing program will be in place by June 1 , seemingly contradicting one of his ministers who had earlier said the scheme would not be as widespread " as we would like " by that date . 
Johnson told MPs during Prime Minister 's Questions that 25,000 trackers would be able to trace the contacts of 10,000 new cases each day . 
" And to understand the importance of that statistic , I should just remind him that today the new cases stand at 2,400 , " Johnson said . 
" So we 're making fast progress in testing and tracing and I have great confidence that , by June 1 , we will have a system that will enable us , that will help us very greatly , to defeat this disease and move the country forward . " 
When pressed by Labour leader Keir Starmer on whether the system would be up and running by the start of June -- the date from which Johnson will consider easing more lockdown restrictions -- Johnson replied : " We have growing confidence that we will have a test , track and trace operation that will be world beating and yes , it will be in place by June 1 . " 
That date also marks the deadline , set by Health Secretary Matt Hancock , for the UK to be conducting 200,000 coronavirus tests per day . 
It is currently carrying out only around 100,000 each day , and its previous monthly target was missed for several days earlier this month . 
Starmer told Johnson that " despite two million tests having been carried out " in the UK , " there has been no effective tracing in place since March 12 , when tracing was abandoned . " 
" That is nearly 10 weeks in a critical period without effective tracing . 
That is a huge hole in our defences , is not it Prime Minister ? " he said . 
Starmer drew comparisons between the tracing programs in South Korea and Germany , which have helped keep deaths low in those countries . 
But Johnson defended his government 's approach , telling Starmer the UK is " now testing more than virtually any other country in Europe . " 
