Passengers from New Zealand arrived at Sydney 's International Airport today on the first flight of a one way travel bubble that allows quarantine free travel . 
Images show passengers in masks hugging friends and carrying luggage after arriving in Australia 's largest city from Auckland . 
One way bubble : Around 70,000 Australians live in New Zealand , and they 've been kept apart from their families and friends back home for months dues to coronavirus travel restrictions . 
However , nearly 10 times that number of New Zealanders live in Australia -- but they will have to wait for quarantine free travel home . 
Initially , the travel bubble is only one way , from New Zealand to Australia , and a limited number of destinations will be included in the deal , according to Australian Deputy Prime Minister Michael Mc Cormack . 
For now , the travel bubble will include only Australia 's New South Wales and the Northern Territory . 
The rules : Mc Cormack said earlier this month that New Zealanders who had not been in a coronavirus hotspot in the previous 14 days would be allowed to enter Australia without having to isolate . 
Outside the travel bubble , anyone who flies into Australia must undergo 14 days of mandatory hotel quarantine at their own expense . 
The Australian Department of Health had determined that New Zealand posed a " low risk " of Covid 19 transmission to Australia . 
Right now , New Zealand 's borders are closed to international travelers under restrictions put in place to limit the spread of the virus . 
Mc Cormack said it would be up to New Zealand 's Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern to decide whether to make exceptions for Australians . 
Ardern said on October 2 that New Zealanders who take up the Australian offer will still have to quarantine on their return . 
Almost all international arrivals into New Zealand must pay 3,100 New Zealand dollars ( about $ 2,000 ) to complete 14 days in a government run quarantine facility . 
Read more about the travel bubble : 
