New York State added 834 positive Covid 19 cases , marking a 1.5 % positivity rate , the governor said adding that Brooklyn , Orange County and Rockland county are heavy contributors to the rise . 
" We ’re also seeing in these numbers , significant actions in clusters . 
It 's basically Brooklyn , Orange , and Rockland that are increasing this number , " New York Gov . 
Andrew Cuomo said . 
Once the epicenter of the pandemic in the US , New York had boasted a test positivity rate — the percentage of tests being performed that come back positive for the virus — of less than 1 % for more than a month . 
State health officials are going to be reaching out in the specific areas and doing additional testing and compliance measures , the governor said . 
" Brooklyn is a major contributor , " he added . 
" We have specific zip codes in Brooklyn that we ’re going to be looking at because its very targeted , and our health officials are going to be reaching out to those Brooklyn communities , Orange and Rockland today to do additional testing and compliance measures in those areas . " 
" It is very targeted and very focused in those clusters , " he added . 
Brooklyn is at 2.6 % . 
Mid Hudson is at 3 % The southern tier " has a blip " tied to 3 clusters , a nursing home , a church gathering " that created issues " and a pub in separate counties , he said . 
Cuomo added that 11 more New Yorkers died from Covid 19 , and that 543 are hospitalized . 
The governor is also signing an executive order requiring the department of health to alert all travelers that the state will have a " mandatory quarantine " for all level 2 , and level 3 countries . 
This is all but 31 countries on the globe , he added . 
" We are going to increase our presence , " he said . 
His move comes after , as he referenced , the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has ended enhanced screening at airports for some international travelers despite " alarming increases in countries around the world . " 
He noted France , Spain and Israel by name . 
