The novel coronavirus is continuing to spread around the world , with more than 89,000 global cases and over 3,000 deaths . 
More than 70 countries and territories now have confirmed cases of the disease . 
Here 's the latest : US cases top 100 : A surge in new cases in Washington state has pushed the total number of infections in the United States past 100 as of Monday evening . 
At least six people in Washington have died from the virus . 
Speaking on Monday , President Donald Trump said he was still considering additional travel restrictions from countries with rampant coronavirus outbreaks . 
Airlines pressed to provide more data : As the number of infections rises in the US , government officials are calling on airlines to collect more information on international travelers to help curb the virus . 
Two US officials told CNN that could allow potential carriers of the coronavirus to be alerted quickly . 
South Korean toll rises : 600 new infections announced today pushed the East Asian country 's total past 4,800 , including 28 deaths -- the biggest outbreak outside mainland China . 
The majority of infections are in the southern city of Daegu . 
Global spread widens : Latvia , Tunisia , Jordan , Saudi Arabia , Portugal and Senegal were among countries that reported their first confirmed cases of the coronavirus on Monday . 
In total more than 70 countries and territories have now confirmed cases of the virus . 
WHO on alert : The director general of the World Health Organization has warned that the virus has brought the world into " unchartered territory . " 
" We have never before seen a respiratory pathogen that is capable of community transmission , but which can also be contained with the right measures , " Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus tweeted . 
Iran receives medical supplies : The World Health Organization has sent aid to Iran which is currently working to contain a quickly spreading coronavirus epidemic . 
At least 1,500 people have been infected in the country , killing 66 , including a top government adviser . 
European Union raises risk level : The EU 's alert level for the novel coronavirus has been raised from moderate to high , European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said at a Monday news conference . 
There are more than 2,000 confirmed cases in the EU , with the bulk of the outbreak happening in Italy . 
