Many frontline health care workers who care for Covid 19 patients may be infected and not even know it , researchers led by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported Monday . 
And because the infections are undetected , they can potentially be spread to patients , coworkers , and others in the community . 
Their survey of more than 3,200 health workers found 6 % had antibodies to coronavirus , indicating they had been infected with the virus . 
But 69 % of them had never been diagnosed with such an infection , 44 % did not believe they had ever been infected and 29 % said they never had any symptoms . 
" A high proportion of SARS Co V 2 infections among healthcare personnel appear to go undetected , " the team at academic medical centers across the country , including the CDC Covid 19 Response Team , wrote in the CDC ’s weekly report . 
" Consistent with persons in the general population with SARS Co V 2 infection , many frontline HCP [ health care personnel ] with SARS Co V 2 infection might be asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic during infection , and infection might be unrecognized , " they continued . 
More on the study : The researchers analyzed blood samples taken between April 3 and June 19 from 3,248 frontline health care workers at 13 academic medical centers across the country . 
The samples were tested for antibodies to the SARS Co V 2 virus and participants were asked about potential symptoms of Covid 19 , previous testing for a coronavirus infection , and their use of personal protective equipment in the week prior . 
Participants who reported always wearing a face covering — a surgical mask , N95 respirator , or powered air purifying respirator — while caring for patients had lower infection rates compared with those who did not . 
But personal protective equipment was not always available . 
In eight of the 13 medical centers , more than 10 % of participants reported a PPE shortage . 
Shortages of N95 respirators were those most commonly reported — 5 % of those surveyed said there was a shortage where they worked . 
" A higher percentage of participants who reported a PPE shortage had detectable SARS Co V 2 antibodies ( 9 % ) than did those who did not report a PPE shortage ( 6 % ) , " the researchers wrote . 
" A high proportion of personnel with antibodies did not suspect that they had been previously infected . " 
Requiring face coverings , having teams dedicated exclusively to caring for patients with coronavirus , better screening and testing might all help , the team concluded . 
