The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is set to " clarify " confusing and controversial changes made to its guidance about testing people who do not have symptoms of coronavirus , CDC Director Dr . Robert Redfield said Wednesday . 
" We have never recommended against asymptomatic testing . 
You ’ll see in the clarification we are making it very clear asymptomatic and presymptomatic transmission is important , and making it very clear if you have been exposed to somebody , you need to be tested and contact traced , " Redfield added . 
Testing guidelines were changed on CDC ’s site quietly , without public notice , on Aug . 24 . 
Here ’s what the CDC website said previously : " Testing is recommended for all close contacts of persons with SARS Co V 2 infection . 
Because of the potential for asymptomatic and pre symptomatic transmission , it is important that contacts of individuals with SARS Co V 2 infection be quickly identified and tested . " 
The site was changed on Aug . 24 to say : " If you have been in close contact ( within 6 feet ) of a person with a COVID 19 infection for at least 15 minutes but do not have symptoms , you do not necessarily need a test unless you are a vulnerable individual or your health care provider or State or local public health officials recommend you take one . " 
Redfield said the agency would post new guidance updating those changes , which were broadly denounced by public health experts . 
" We are going to come out with that hopefully , I hope before the end of the week , " Redfield told the hearing . 
He said testing is important not only for diagnosing cases , but for screening groups to find cases that are not obvious . 
" Screening can be very powerful , " he said . 
It can help schools reopen and help people get back to more normal lives , he added . 
Now that more tests are available , Redfield said , the CDC will also encourage surveillance testing , which can help find cases that might otherwise go unnoticed until an outbreak has started . 
