Following the news that the Ukrainian president , Volodymyr Zelenskiy , tested positive for the coronavirus , the finance minister , the defence minister and Zelenskiy ’s top aide are also reported to be infected . 
" The head of state is feeling well and will continue to perform his duties remotely in self isolation , " Zelenskiy ’s office said in a statement . 
" Despite all the quarantine measures , I also received a + [ positive ] result . 
I have 37.5 , and I wish everyone 36.6 ! " Zelenskiy said in a Telegram message , referring to his body temperature . 
Minutes after Zelenskiy ’s announcement , Andriy Yermak , head of the presidential office , said on Facebook that he had also tested positive for the virus . 
The office of the finance minister , Serhiy Marchenko , said he had been diagnosed with Covid 19 and would work remotely . 
State news agency Ukrinform reported that defence minister Andriy Taran had also tested positive . 
The ministry was unavailable for comment . 
On Thursday , Marchenko , the prime minister Denys Shmygal and other ministers took part in a parliamentary session . 
Shmygal ’s office said he had no signs of the infection but would undergo a test on Tuesday . 
The president ’s wife , Olena , contracted Covid 19 in June and spent several weeks in a hospital . 
The daily tally of coronavirus infections in Ukraine spiked in late September and remained consistently high throughout October and early November , prompting the government to extend lockdown measures until the end of this year . 
Shmygal said last week the number of new cases could jump to 15,000 a day by the end of November and to 20,000 daily by the end of the year . 
Ukraine ’s health minister said last week the coronavirus situation in Ukraine was close to catastrophic and that the nation must prepare for the worst . 
Zelenskiy said earlier on Monday that Ukraine may introduce a lockdown at weekends in an effort to curb the pandemic , and such a move would not have a serious negative impact on the economy . 
