The novel coronavirus has now infected more than 3.1 million people and killed over 217,000 worldwide , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
If you 're just joining us , here 's the latest on the pandemic : PPE and testing shortages : US health officials from FEMA and HHS told lawmakers that states continue to face shortages of personal protective equipment and coronavirus testing supplies -- contradicting President Donald Trump . 
Major political event back on : China will hold its annual meeting of the National People ’s Congress on May 22 , after the unprecedented decision to postpone it amid the coronavirus pandemic . 
Australia secures 10 million tests : A mining magnate secured a deal on behalf of the Australian government for 10 million coronavirus tests and pathology equipment . 
It will mark a 20 fold increase in the country 's testing capability . 
Rare disease found in US child : US doctors say they may have seen a possible complication of coronavirus in a young child : a rare inflammatory condition called Kawasaki disease . 
Britain ’s National Health Service sent an alert to doctors Sunday saying they had seen similar cases . 
Chest radiation study : In a small pilot study , researchers are exploring whether low dose chest radiation therapy may improve lung function in certain critically ill Covid 19 patients , according to the Winship Cancer Institute of Emory University in Atlanta . 
Men could be more affected : A small study in China may support the idea that men get sicker and are more likely to die from coronavirus than women . 
But it does not necessarily reflect what has happened elsewhere in the world . 
Faulty masks : 30,000 reusable masks sent to pregnant women in Japan may be defective , according to Japanese public broadcaster NHK , with complaints that they are stained and dirty . 
USS Theodore Roosevelt : Sailors from the coronavirus stricken aircraft carrier will begin returning to the ship in the next 24 to 48 hours for the first time since they were moved ashore because of Covid 19 , according to a defense official . 
Masks in the sky : United Airlines and American Airlines will begin to provide masks to passengers beginning in early May . 
It follows an announcement from Jet Blue on Monday saying all passengers will be required to wear a face covering during travel from May 4 . 
