The numbers : As of midnight in Geneva , the World Health Organization has recorded 173,344 coronavirus cases and 7,019 deaths globally . 
A separate tally from the Johns Hopkins University , which is tracking cases reported by the WHO and additional sources , puts the number of cases at over 182,400 with at least 7,100 deaths . 
Over 79,000 patients have recovered around the world , according to Johns Hopkins . 
The number of coronavirus deaths outside China have now surpassed the number of deaths inside . 
Global lockdowns : Parts of China , Italy , Spain , the Philippines , and Lebanon have put their citizens under partial or total lockdown . 
France has issued restrictive measures that require all vehicle and pedestrian movements to be justified and Malaysia will impose a nationwide movement control order that bars citizens from traveling abroad , while foreign tourists and visitors will be restricted from entering the country . 
Restrictions on daily life : Countries all over the world have closed borders , expanding restrictions on travel and daily life , issued bans on public gatherings and told citizens to work from home or not to leave the house . 
Situation in the US : Cases have surpassed 4,400 and at least 87 people have died . 
The White House recommends people avoid gatherings of more than 10 people , and a growing number of US states and cities have announced widespread mandatory closures as part of attempts to curb the spread of the virus . 
Top US health care officials have warned the country does not have enough stockpiled medical equipment like masks and gloves to deal with the coronavirus pandemic . 
Ohio Gov . 
Mike De Wine said that the state 's health director will order presidential primary polls closed Tuesday " as a health emergency . " 
Tokyo 2020 Olympics : Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said today that he " secured support " from G7 leaders to hold the Games in their " complete form , " which would provide " proof that the world has contained coronavirus . " 
Japan has faced calls to cancel the Olympics for weeks . 
Hong Kong uses electronic wristbands : The government announced new travel restrictions requiring all arrivals from foreign countries to undergo a 14 day quarantine . 
The wristbands , and an accompanying smartphone app , will alert officials if travelers violate the quarantine . 
