Dr . Kelly Moore , associate director of the Immunization Action Coalition , which is supporting frontline workers who will administer Covid 19 vaccinations , said the first day that a vaccine is available is going to be " a really important learning day . " 
" Nobody 's going to be running out of the gates to start vaccinating at full speed on day one , " said Moore , who serves on the external advisory board for Pfizer 's coronavirus vaccine . 
Moore said day one will probably be designed to be a relatively small number of people vaccinated in controlled settings , so that those who are administering the vaccines can start learning how the product works and get experience giving the shots before they scale up and expand their offerings . 
For example , Moore said vaccinators wo not have access to product specific factsheets and training materials until the US Food and Drug Administration authorizes emergency use of a coronavirus vaccine . 
She says her organization is waiting to see what the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention posts before it can prepare materials to amplify what is distributed by the agency . 
" CDC has informed states that they have a big stack of training job aids and training materials , and information , and training modules on these vaccines , ready to go , as soon as the emergency use is issued , but they ca not post them or share them until the authorization is issued , " Moore said . 
" We are preparing the groundwork for what we need to do , but we 're in a holding pattern . " 
A CDC spokesperson told CNN it was their understanding that the materials do exist but cannot be distributed until the vaccine is given an emergency use authorization by the FDA . 
In a statement , the FDA said , " We note that all printed material regarding the authorized emergency use of any vaccine must be consistent with the terms of the Emergency Use Authorization ( EUA ) . 
This includes the fact sheets for health care providers and for patients/vaccine recipients , which will be available upon authorization . " 
Moore said the product specific training materials must wait for the EUA because certain information contained in them is contingent on the FDA 's decision . 
She said the current vaccine timeline does not leave a big window for vaccinators to learn about the products . 
" They 're going to be moving directly from paper to practice with very little time in between . 
So , that could be a challenge for folks , " Moore said . 
