More than 1 million Americans have been infected with Covid 19 in the last week . 
Over the weekend , the United States topped 11 million coronavirus cases and 246,000 deaths , meaning that one in 1,340 Americans alive in January has now died in the pandemic and one in 30 has been infected . 
It 's also getting worse . 
At least 45 states reported more new infections last week compared to the previous week , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
A new record high number of patients have been hospitalized . 
Hospitals in several states are running out of capacity and staff . 
But the country 's leadership is nowhere to be seen . 
As an average of more than 1,000 Americans died every day in the past week , President Donald Trump continued to ignore the deepening crisis . 
In the absence of national action , states have been left to manage on their own . 
Over the weekend , Washington state announced new restrictions on social gatherings , while Michigan told high schools and colleges to move to remote learning for three weeks . 
New Mexico is banning in person services for nonessential businesses starting today . 
But the Trump administration has not just gone missing . 
It 's actively pushing against the measures that experts say are necessary to curb the spread of the virus . 
White House coronavirus task force member Dr . Scott Atlas criticized Michigan 's new restrictions and urged people to " rise up " against them . 
The US is now looking a lot like Europe did a month ago . Belgium , France , Spain , the Czech Republic and others then saw infection levels rising beyond their worst predictions . 
Running out of hospital beds was a real possibility . 
But those countries managed to slow the spread and -- for now -- prevent the virus from overwhelming their health systems . 
How ? 
Through lockdowns and mask mandates . 
The US could follow in their footsteps . 
Or it could just keep talking about the election . 
Here 's what else you need to know about the pandemic today : 
