The Trump Administration ’s faltering response to the coronavirus pandemic has led to anywhere between 130,000 and 210,000 deaths in the United States that could have been prevented , according to a report released Thursday by a team of disaster preparedness experts . 
Insufficient testing , a lack of national mask mandates or guidance , a delayed overall response and outright mocking of basic public health practices by the administration has put the US at the top of the global coronavirus death toll , the report from Columbia University Earth Institute ’s National Center for Disaster Preparedness finds " We estimate that at least 130,000 deaths and perhaps as many as 210,000 could have been avoided with earlier policy interventions and more robust federal coordination and leadership , " the report reads . 
" Even with the dramatic recent appearance of new COVID 19 waves globally , the abject failures of U.S . government policies and crisis messaging persist . 
U.S . fatalities have remained disproportionately high throughout the pandemic when compared to even other high mortality countries , " it adds . 
" The inability of the U.S . to mitigate the pandemic is especially stark when contrasted with the response of high income nations , such as South Korea , Japan , Australia , Germany , France , and Canada , as well as low - and middle income countries as varied as Thailand , Pakistan , Honduras , and Malaysia . 
All of these nations have had greater success in protecting their populations from the impact of the coronavirus . " 
According to Johns Hopkins University , the US has tallied more than 8.3 million coronavirus cases and more than 222,000 deaths . 
" The data establishes that a significant number of lives could have been saved if the Trump administration acted on the advice from the scientific and public health community , " said Dr . Irwin Redlener , founding director of the National Center for Disaster Preparedness at Columbia . 
" As the country faces a second wave of this virus , we need to hold leadership accountable . 
The magnitude of loss , caused by a disorganized response , will have devastating and long lasting consequences for millions of American families . " 
When measured by deaths per 100,000 population , the report calculates that the US mortality rate is 50 times higher than Japan ’s , and more than twice as high as Canada ’s . 
" Although both the U.S . and South Korea confirmed their first case of coronavirus on January 20 , South Korea was able to institute an aggressive diagnostic testing strategy and isolate infected patients , leading to a proportional mortality rate today that is 78 times smaller than that of the United States , " the report reads . 
" From the moment the pandemic was first identified , President Trump and his team have downplayed the crisis and ignored basic and widely known public health guidelines to curb the spread of COVID 19 , " said Jeffrey Sachs , a professor of health policy and management at Columbia . 
" To stop the ongoing epidemic in the U.S . , it is urgent to examine the available data , identify the failures , call out the Administration ’s relentless misinformation , and hold the Trump Administration accountable for its failure to slow the virus ’s spread and the more than 200,000 lives that have been unnecessarily lost . " 
The research team compared the US response to the policies in other countries . 
If the US had followed the policies and protocols of Australia , as few as 11,699 people may have died , the report estimates . 
Following Japan ’s policies would have led to as few as 4,315 deaths in the US , the Columbia team calculated . 
Even France did better and had the US followed France ’s lead , 162,240 Americans would have died -- around 60,000 fewer than the current total . 
