South Korea 's Minister of Health Park Neung hoo announced the country will raise its social distancing measures from this Tuesday , as the capital city area has entered a " widespread stage . " 
South Korea was widely praised as a Covid 19 success story , and had managed to keep the pandemic largely under control . 
But there are now more active Covid 19 cases in South Korea than at any other point through the pandemic , according to the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency . 
Pandemic is on the brink of spreading : The Seoul Metropolitan Area will enter the fourth highest level of social distancing restrictions in a five level system for three weeks starting on Tuesday at 12 a.m . local time , Park said Sunday . 
Park noted that past distancing measures had not yielded a clear result and that the pandemic is at the brink of spreading to the rest of the country . 
There are currently 7,873 Covid 19 patients in the country , which has recorded a total of 37,546 cases and 545 deaths since the pandemic began . 
Seoul restrictions : From Tuesday in the Seoul Metropolitan Area , gatherings including those at weddings and funerals must not exceed 50 people . 
Karaoke businesses and gyms must close , and spectators will be banned at sports events . 
Hair salons and movie theatres must close after 9 p.m . 
The government will strongly recommend private businesses transition to work from home so only one third of workers are in the workplace . 
Masks mandatory as Covid 19 hospital beds could run out : In the rest of the country , masks will become mandatory in all indoor facilities , and gatherings must not exceed 100 people . 
Bars and clubs will be closed , and restaurants will only be allowed to serve takeout and deliveries past 9 p.m . If the current trend persists , beds dedicated to critical care of Covid 19 patients will run out in about a week , Park said . 
Park said the health authority will work to secure more critical care beds dedicated to Covid 19 patients from 177 beds currently , to 274 beds by December 15 . 
" We are no longer recommending refraining from having gatherings . 
Please cancel all of them and reduce all activity for these three weeks , " Park said . 
