The numbers : The coronavirus has killed more than 6,500 worldwide , and infected over 169,000 , according to an estimate from Johns Hopkins University , which is tracking cases reported by the WHO and additional sources . 
More cases outside China than inside : Mainland China reported 16 new confirmed cases of coronavirus and 14 new deaths as of Sunday , bringing the country 's total number of cases to 80,860 . 
There are now more cases outside of mainland China than there are inside . 
Thirteen provinces no longer have active confirmed cases being treated state broadcaster CCTV reported . 
However , Wuhan -- ground zero for the outbreak -- warned it is still facing a " severe " epidemic , amid a continuation of locally transmitted cases . 
French measures : More than half of France 's 300 coronavirus patients in intensive care are under the age of 60 , according to the head of the country 's national health agency . 
France has closed restaurants , cafes , cinemas and clubs , and issued a ban on large gatherings to contain the spread . 
Italy cases spike : Italy on Sunday announced 368 new fatalities in just 24 hours , bringing the total death toll in the country to 1,809 . 
The total number of cases there reached 24,747 , with an increase of 3,590 new cases recorded in 24 hours , according to the country 's Civil Protection Department . 
Germany closes borders : Germany closed its borders with several of its neighbors and those who want to cross the border with Austria , Switzerland , France , Luxembourg and Denmark , need a good reason to do so . 
Goods and commuters are exempt . 
Stranded cruise ship : Cuba has offered to receive the MS Braemar , which has been searching for somewhere to dock after it was refused entry at several Caribbean ports . 
There are five confirmed coronavirus cases onboard and a further 20 passengers and 20 crew members are in isolation . 
US cases rise : There are at least 3,485 cases in the US and a total of 65 deaths have been reported . 
US Vice President Mike Pence said new guidelines will be released Monday regarding potential curfews or closures of locations such as restaurants . 
Several US states and cities have already announced widespread mandatory closures as part of attempts to curb the spread of the virus . 
