Spain has begun its transition into a new phase of de escalation toward a " new normal " Monday as the country ’s health authorities report a second day of record low Covid 19 new infections and deaths . 
The country is seeing " the lowest number of cases in two months " by percentage , said Dr . Fernando Simón , Spain ’s Director for Health Emergencies , speaking at the government ’s daily coronavirus technical briefing . 
Spain 's Ministry of Health has reported a record low 0.16 % rise of new coronavirus infection cases confirmed by PCR ( Polymerase Chain Reaction ) tests , since Sunday . 
The number of deaths rose by 164 in the last 24 hours , bringing the cumulative number of deaths to 25,428 since the start of the pandemic in Spain . 
The number of daily recoveries outnumber new infections , but Simón cautioned that even though the data is good , it does not " eliminate risk , " and noted that the positive coronavirus cases figures could be adjusted in the coming days due to delayed weekend holiday reporting . 
When asked whether relaxation of the country ’s restrictions will mean a new wave of infections , Simón said health authorities are working on early detection to know the number of possible cases much more quickly . 
The faster detection and tracking will " guarantee that from the moment you move from one phase to the other , the regions are prepared to respond correctly in case of a [ new ] outbreak " , Simón explained . 
When asked about the possibility of Spain using apps to track the contagion , Simón said : " What we need to know is what added value these apps bring to the systems that we already have in place , or that we are putting place to do contact tracing . " 
He also noted that Spain has restrictive data protection laws , so those would need to be taken into consideration " to be sure that they [ the apps ] do not infringe on other rights in an irreversible way . " 
Restrictions eased : Spain started a transition out of eight weeks of strict restrictions on Monday , under the country ’s state of emergency , which has been in place since March 14 . 
