Cuba has placed Havana back on a strict lockdown following a rebound in coronavirus cases , ordering restaurants , bars and pools once more to close , suspending public transportation and banning access to the beach , Reuters reports . 
Cuba , which has been hailed as a rare success story in Latin America for its textbook handling and containment of its coronavirus outbreak , had eased lockdown restrictions last month after cases dwindled to but a handful per day . 
But they have risen back to April levels over the past two weeks , with the health ministry reporting 59 cases on Saturday and saying the situation could become " uncontrollable " if authorities did not act fast . 
" We are witnessing a new epidemiological outbreak that puts our entire population at risk , " Cuban health minister José Angel Portal said during a daily coronavirus briefing on Saturday . 
Cuba ’s free community based health system has been credited , along with measures such as strict isolation of the sick and their contacts , with allowing it to keep the number of cases under 2,900 with 88 deaths for a population of 11 million . 
Authorities though have berated Cubans for letting their guard down after lockdown was eased , failing to socially distance or properly wear their face masks , which are obligatory in public spaces , and when gathering in big groups . 
One of the latest major events of local transmission was traced back to a religious gathering . 
But many of the new cases – 41 of the 59 reported on Saturday – are also imported , often from Venezuela . 
There is no open travel in Cuba due to the pandemic , so most returnees would likely be from the 20,000 health personnel stationed in Cuba ’s leftist ally . 
Anyone entering the country is required to quarantine in a state facility for 14 days so contagion from those cases is contained . 
While Cuba ’s outbreak is focused on Havana , Portal said authorities would need to monitor the rest of the country carefully given the large amount of asymptomatic carriers and nationwide travel that had occurred over the past month . 
