The novel coronavirus has infected more than 3.3 million people and killed at least 238,000 worldwide . 
If you 're just joining us now , here are the latest developments . 
Some rules are relaxed : Americans are returning to weekend routines after more than 30 states began easing restrictions -- some doing away with stay at home orders altogether while others loosen measures to allow businesses such as movie theaters to reopen . 
But experts have warned a second wave could hit in the fall . 
The United States has at least 1,104,161 reported cases of coronavirus and 65,068 related deaths , according to data from Johns Hopkins University . 
Spaniards out exercising : In Spain , people took to the streets to run , cycle or walk after seven weeks in confinement . 
From today , people can exercise near their homes from 6 a.m . to 10 a.m . and from 8 p.m . to 11 p.m . 
Since the strictest lockdown in Europe began on March 14 , they have only been allowed out for short trips to the grocery store or pharmacy . 
First therapy drug authorized in US : The experimental drug remdesivir has been approved to treat hospitalized patients with severe Covid 19 , the US Food and Drug Administration said in a letter on Friday . 
The FDA issued an emergency use authorization on Friday , saying the benefits of the drug outweigh its risks . 
WHO congratulates Wuhan : The World Health Organization has congratulated the Chinese city of Wuhan for having no severe coronavirus cases left . 
Wuhan was ground zero for the country 's outbreak , and in lockdown from January to April . 
China 's National Health Commission ( NHC ) has reported only a single new case of the coronavirus and no deaths for the fourth consecutive day . 
Countries reopening : Singapore has announced plans to ease restrictions over the coming weeks , with business to resume more fully from June 1 . 
Malaysia will allow most businesses to reopen Monday , but movie theaters and nightclubs will remain closed . 
India 's lockdown , affecting 1.3 billion people , has been extended to May 17 but restrictions have eased in low risk areas that have not had new cases in three weeks . 
Australia is considering easing its lockdown earlier than planned . 
White House blocks Fauci : The White House is blocking Dr . Anthony Fauci , a key member of the administration 's coronavirus task force , from testifying before the Democratic led House next week . 
But it appears Fauci will testify in front of a committee of the Republican led Senate committee in May . Fauci has repeatedly distanced himself from Trump ’s framing of the federal government ’s handling of the pandemic to strike a more somber tone . 
