Weeks after most US states began lifting their lockdowns , parts of the country are now pausing reopening plans and adding restrictions in an effort to slow staggering surges in new case numbers . 
At least 14 states have announced they are pausing or rolling back reopening measures . 
These include : Arizona , Arkansas , California , Delaware , Florida , Idaho , Louisiana , North Carolina , Maine , New Jersey , Nevada , New Mexico , Texas , and Washington state . 
Here is a breakdown by state : Arizona – Gov . 
Doug Ducey said Thursday the state ’s reopening plans are now " on pause " as a result of a major spike in coronavirus cases . 
Arkansas – Gov . 
Asa Hutchinson said Thursday he is not ready to further lift restrictions as cases surge . 
California – Gov . 
Gavin Newsom has ordered bars closed in seven counties , including Los Angeles County . 
Delaware – Gov . 
John Carney announced Thursday the delay of phase three of economic reopening originally scheduled for today . 
Florida – Gov . 
Ron De Santis said the state has no plan of continuing its reopening . 
The state has stopped on premises consumption of alcohol at bars . 
Idaho – Gov . 
Brad Little on Thursday said the state will remain in stage four of reopening for at least two more weeks . 
Louisiana – Gov . 
John Bel Edwards on Thursday formally extended phase two of reopening in Louisiana for another 28 days , as new Covid 19 cases and hospitalizations increase . 
North Carolina – Gov . 
Roy Cooper extended the Safer at Home phase two for three additional weeks on Wednesday . 
New Jersey – Gov . 
Phil Murphy said Monday the state " must hit pause " on the resumption of indoor dining , which was set to resume this coming Thursday . 
" Under our revised plan indoor dining will now be reset to resume at a later date to be determined , " Murphy said . 
Nevada – Gov . 
Steve Sisolak said Monday there is no timeline for further lifting of restrictions . 
Maine – Gov . 
Janet Mills paused the state 's next phase , which would allow bars and restaurants to reopen Wednesday . 
New Mexico – Gov . 
Michelle Lujan Grisham said Thursday further economic reopening plans are on hold . 
" We ’re not quite ready to go to phase two , " she said . 
Texas – Gov . 
Greg Abbott on Friday ordered bars to close again and restaurants to reduce capacity to 50 % . 
On Thursday Abbot said the state would pause any further phases to open Texas . 
Washington state – Gov . 
Jay Inslee said he is pausing reopening as cites are seeing rising coronavirus cases 
