One in three young adults is at risk of severe Covid 19 , and smoking plays a big part in that risk , according to new research published Monday in the Journal of Adolescent Health . 
Researchers at the University of California , San Francisco , looked at more than 8,000 participants ages 18 to 25 who had participated in the National Health Interview Survey to see what their medical vulnerability to severe Covid 19 was in relation to risk indicators that had been set out by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , including health conditions and smoking habits . 
The researchers found 32 % of the total study population were medically vulnerable for severe Covid 19 . 
However , when the group of participants who smoked cigarettes or e cigarettes were taken out of the analysis , the medically vulnerable percentage decreased by half , to 16 % . 
The research showed that in the whole study population , young adult men were at a higher risk for severe Covid 19 . 
Although more women reported having asthma and immune conditions , higher rates of smoking in men overrode this . 
However , looking at just the non smokers , women had a higher risk . 
" Recent evidence indicates that smoking is associated with a higher likelihood of COVID 19 progression , including increased illness severity , ICU admission or death , " said Sally Adams , lead author of the study , in a press release . 
" Smoking may have significant effects in young adults , who typically have low rates for most chronic diseases . " 
Other findings : Another interesting finding from the research is that in the 18 to 25 age group , White young adults had the highest vulnerability . 
" Our finding of lower medical vulnerability of racial/ethnic minorities compared with the white subgroup , despite controlling for income and insurance status , was unexpected , " the study said . 
" It is also inconsistent with research showing higher rates of Covid 19 morbidity and mortality and other chronic illnesses among racial/ethnic minorities , specific to one age group . " 
The researchers said it is also inconsistent with the 15 to 24 age group , where Hispanic and Black Americans were shown to have the highest rates of Covid 19 deaths . 
" This suggest that factors other than the CDC ’s medical vulnerability criteria play a role in the risk of severe Covid 19 illness in the young adult population , " the researchers said . 
The study did have some limitations , including the lack of information about Covid 19 in the 18 to 25 population , and a chance that it could underestimate the vulnerability rates for certain ethnic or racial subgroups of young adults due to the data source . 
