Boris Johnson said it will take a " truly global endeavour " to prevent future pandemics as he met Bill Gates to discuss how governments can prepare , PA reports . 
The UK prime minister said the Microsoft co founder " sounded the alarm " about how unprepared the world was for a global health crisis , long before coronavirus . 
He added that leaders must now " heed his call " to stop " something like this ever happening again " . 
Johnson hosted a virtual meeting with Gates and the heads of 10 life science and pharmaceutical firms on Tuesday , to discuss how governments can work with the industry to prevent future pandemics . 
He praised the " herculean " joint effort that such companies were undertaking to tackle the disease at " record speed " . 
He said : Defeating coronavirus and preventing future pandemics is a truly global endeavour , requiring ingenuity , tenacity and a spirit of openness to succeed . 
Bill Gates sounded the alarm on the world ’s lack of preparation for a major health crisis long before most of us had heard the word coronavirus - and now we must heed his call to stop something like this ever happening again . 
The 10 chief executives " re committed " to help ensure fair global access to any successful coronavirus vaccine , Downing Street said . 
Gates , who is co chair of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation , said the world needed a " comprehensive strategy " to avoid future pandemics . 
He said : Every head of state is thinking about two questions right now - how can we end the current pandemic ? 
And how can we prevent the next one ? 
To answer those questions , the world needs a comprehensive strategy ; a coherent approach to financing and manufacturing billions of doses of vaccines , tests and drugs ; and a network to monitor for new threats . 
We ’re fortunate that prime minister Johnson has come up with a smart plan to do just that in the UK , and our foundation will continue to work with his government and others to make it a reality . 
Johnson has already pledged to use the UK ’s G7 presidency next year to build a new " global approach " to health security , with a five point plan to protect humanity against another pandemic . 
He committed £ 500m in aid funding for the Covax vaccines procurement pool to help poor countries access a coronavirus jab , and announced a plan , developed with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and The Wellcome Trust , to help stop future pandemics . 
The proposals include developing a global network of " zoonotic hubs " to identify dangerous pathogens before they jump from animals to humans , as well as improving manufacturing capacity for treatments and vaccines . 
The head of the US drug firm Johnson & amp ; 
Johnson , Alex Gorsky , and Albert Bourla from the pharmaceutical company Pfizer , were among the chief executives who attended the virtual meeting . 
