Spain saw its overall number of cases rise by 6,671 on Wednesday , data from the country ’s health ministry showed , boosting a cumulative caseload that already ranks as the highest in western Europe , writes Ashifa Kassam in Madrid . 
The number of cases detected in the past 24 hours has climbed to 3,715 cases . 
This figure , however , has been described by ministry sources as an underestimation given the variances in reporting times between regions and the central government system . 
Still , Wednesday ’s 24 hour total was the highest announced by the ministry since the country eased out of a strict lockdown in late June . 
In what the ministry has signalled as a more reliable indicator of the situation , the country has seen 63,965 new cases diagnosed in the last 14 days – amounting to an average of 4,569 cases a day . 
Around a third of these cases have been in Madrid , the epicentre of the country ’s crisis in March and April . 
In the past seven days , 131 people have lost their lives to Covid 19 across Spain . 
In recent days , public health experts have warned that Spain is facing a pivotal moment in its ongoing battle against the virus . 
The country currently leads Europe with a 14 day rate of 131 new cases per 100,000 – compared to a rate of 43 in France and 10 in Italy . 
Officials in the hard hit regions of Madrid and Catalonia have responded to the surge with mass testing in hopes of ferreting out asymptomatic carriers of the virus . 
Across the country restrictions on nightlife and smoking in public have been rolled out in a bid to curtail transmission . 
The government ’s emergency health response chief , Fernando Simón , has sought to contrast the current situation with that of March and April , pointing to the fact that the majority of new cases being detected are among people under 65 years old . 
The rise in cases can also be partly attributed to increased testing , he said . 
" We are detecting much of what is out there . 
I would not say 100 % ... but between 60 % and 70 % , " he recently told reporters , as compared to March and April when it is believed that less than 10 % of cases were detected . 
