Moscow 's health department said authorities conducted autopsies on 100 % of suspected coronavirus victims and confirmed that 639 people died directly of coronavirus complications in April , in a statement on Wednesday . 
The health department hit back at media reports saying it was under reporting Covid 19 fatalities , saying its data was " absolutely open , " but acknowledging that it only counts deaths that were found through postmortem autopsy to have been caused directly by coronavirus complications . 
" In other cases , it ’s impossible to put Covid 19 as the cause of death , " the health department said , acknowledging the April spike in mortality rates . 
City health officials argue that a mandatory autopsy is performed on all patients with suspected coronavirus to establish diagnosis and cause of death " in contrast with the practice in most other countries , " adding , " post mortem diagnoses and causes of death recorded in Moscow are therefore extremely accurate , and mortality data is completely open . 
It is impossible to name the cause of death as Covid 19 in other cases . " 
Some background : CNN and other news outlets reported this week that Moscow saw a surge in mortality in April , according to civil register ’s data . 
The city registered 11,846 death certificates that month , which is about 20 % higher compared to a ten year average of 9,866 deaths . 
The statistics in the Russian capital have come under scrutiny as observers note the comparatively low overall number of deaths in Russia — a total that currently stands at 2,305 according to Johns Hopkins University — even as the country takes second place in the world for the number of confirmed cases , over a quarter of a million . 
Russia has the second highest number of cases behind the US , and Moscow is the country 's worst hit city . 
According to official statistics , Moscow has reported at least 1,290 deaths out of an official total of more than 130,000 cases recorded as of Thursday , although Moscow Mayor Sergey Sobyanin has said the total number of people infected is likely higher , based on screening studies . 
The statement from the Moscow health authorities argued that even if all mortality figures for April in Moscow were adjusted to attribute more cases to coronavirus , the overall mortality rate from Covid 19 infections would be far lower than the official mortality rates in New York and London . 
