French Prime Minister Jean Castex declared 19 more areas around the country as coronavirus " red zones " Thursday , bringing the total to 21 . 
France 's two biggest cities , Paris and Marseille , are already classified as red zones , meaning areas where the virus is " actively " circulating and the number of active cases has exceeded 50 per 100,000 people . 
In these areas , authorities are able to make masks compulsory outdoors and close bars and restaurants , measures that Marseille has already taken . 
" We have been for a few weeks in a phase of resurgence of the epidemic [ with an average country wide incidence rate of ] 39 positive cases per 100,000 , four times more than a month ago , " Castex added . 
The PM warned : " These figures must be interpreted with caution ; we are testing a lot more people . 
But this ramping up of tests does not explain everything : the percentage of positive people is increasing . 
As after the end of the lockdown on May 11 , the percentage of positive results was 1 % , now it is above 3.7 % . " 
He added that the coronavirus " circulates a lot among young people , " especially the 20-30 age group . 
" They present positive rates close to 6 % ... 
The asymptomatic are in [ a ] high number within this population . " 
Castex added that the government is ready for worse case scenarios , with plans for local or national lockdowns in place , but said the country 's objective " is to do everything to avoid going back to a generalized lockdown . " 
As a general rule , masks are going to be mandatory in France in any enclosed space where several people gather . 
In schools , all students over 11 years old and all teachers will be required to wear face coverings . 
Fifty million free masks have been distributed to low income citizens and their children , and free masks are also available in pharmacies for people with medical conditions who have a prescription . 
Castex said labs are currently testing 830,000 people weekly , and France is hoping to ramp up testing to 1 million tests per week in September . 
In terms of enforcement , the PM said that on average 700 people are fined every day in the country for not wearing a mask . 
