Drug giant Pfizer and its partner Bio NTech said Monday they have approval to start an advanced trial of their experimental coronavirus vaccine in US volunteers . 
The companies said the US Food and Drug Administration approved their plan for a phase 2/3 trial of the vaccine in the United States . 
" Today , we are starting our late stage global study , which will include up to 30,000 participants , " Bio NTech founder Dr . Ugur Sahin said in a statement . 
" Participants will be screened and dosed in the next few days , " a spokesperson for the company told CNN . 
Earlier Monday , Moderna started a Phase 3 trial in the United States of its experimental vaccine . 
Pfizer ’s vaccine is slightly different , but also uses an experimental approach that employs genetic material to stimulate an immune response against a key part of the coronavirus . 
A Phase 2/3 study looks for a combination of safety , efficacy and optimal dosing of a vaccine or drug . 
Last week the US Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Defense announced an agreement with Pfizer for " large scale production and nationwide delivery of 100 million doses of a Covid 19 vaccine in the United States following the vaccine ’s successful manufacture and approval . " 
The $ 1.95 million deal also allowed the US government to acquire an additional 500 million doses . 
Preliminary data released in a pre print paper earlier this month from Pfizer and Bio NTech said the vaccine appeared safe and elicited antibody and T cell immune responses in a Phase 1/2 trial . 
The company had said it could start a Phase 3 trial of the vaccine in late July if it received regulatory approval . 
" We selected BNT162b2 as our lead candidate for this Phase 2/3 trial upon diligent evaluation of the totality of the data generated so far . 
This decision reflects our primary goal to bring a well tolerated , highly effective vaccine to the market as quickly as possible , while we will continue to evaluate our other vaccine candidates as part of a differentiated COVID 19 vaccine portfolio , " Sahin said . 
The companies have three other experimental vaccines in the works . 
