As France prepared to close its border at 11 pm tonight as part of coronavirus safety measures , many businesses are panicking , as the ban includes freight vehicles . 
Since the announcement , Eurotunnel has suspended services for passenger and freight traffic for the outlined 48 hours . 
The Port of Dover has closed its ferry terminal for the UK to France and Eurostar is cancelling trains between London , Brussels , and Amsterdam . 
On Sunday night , Eurotunnel tweeted that its last shuttle service departing for France would be leaving at 9.34 pm , with access to its UK site banned from 10pm . 
Earlier , the Freight Transport Association , Logistics UK tweeted : " Logistics UK is aware of news that accompanied freight to France is not being allowed for 48 hours ; we are concerned about the welfare of drivers and we are urgently seeking more information for our members . " 
URGENT : UK France border closes 23:00 GMT tonight . 
Last shuttle UK FR is 21:34 GMT , please check in on time . 
Access to UK site prohibited from 22:00 GMT.Amend most bookings using My Eurotunnel : a cancellation/refund : But one of Scotland ’s key shellfish suppliers has tweeted out about the strain this will have on businesses , writing : " There will be Vivier trucks from all over Scotland heading in that direction , millions of pounds worth of seafood at the time of the most important market of the year the last one before Xmas , Jesus if BREXIT was not going to put us out of business by Tuesday this week we will be . 
" Even if we get through 48 hours later we will miss the Xmas deadline , this is unbelievable . " 
There will be Vivier trucks from all over Scotland heading in that direction , millions of pounds worth of seafood at the time of the most important market of the year the last one before Xmas , Jesus if BREXIT was not going to put us out of business by Tuesday this week we will be . @ Foodanddrinkfed " Tonight ’s suspension of accompanied freight traffic from UK to France has potential to cause serious disruption to UK Christmas fresh food supplies – and exports of UK food and drink ... " putting off inbound truckers , concerned about being stuck in GB . 
