The distribution of Pfizer ’s two dose coronavirus vaccine will be a " logistical challenge " because the shot needs to be stored at freezing temperatures , according to Dr . John Burkhardt , Pfizer ’s vice president of Global Drug Safety Research and Development . 
" We 're working very hard on that , " he said . 
" There 's a whole suite of very experienced and talented people at Pfizer who are solely working on this , an army of people , and so it 's going to be important to work with the authorities with state governments and others to provide that supply chain . " 
State health officials have expressed concerns about the requirements for Pfizer ’s vaccine , which must be stored at extremely cold temperatures of - 94 Fahrenheit ( - 70 Celsius ) -- far below the capacity of standard freezers . 
It ’s unclear how long Pfizer ’s vaccine will offer protection from Covid 19 , Burkhardt said . 
Pfizer will follow the volunteers in the clinical trials for two years " with an emphasis on safety " but will also collect other types of data , he added . 
" We just need some time for this to play out , " Burkhardt said when asked whether the vaccine might help prevent more severe cases of Covid 19 or asymptomatic cases . 
He emphasized Pfizer 's years of experience in vaccine development and said " no corners were cut " with this one . 
" We followed this tried and true methodology that has worked so well for us in the past and continues to deliver really superior and safe products , " he added . 
Burkhardt said what was unusual this time was that the company started the manufacturing process at the same time it was developing the vaccine -- something that is not usually done . 
Burkhardt also credited " great volunteerism " in getting 43,000 people enrolled in the clinical trials as a time saver in the development process . 
" We also moved over 150 sites for clinical studies , and we were able to really emphasize locations where virus was spreading more quickly , " he said . 
