The Trump administration has reached a $ 1.525 billion deal with Moderna Inc . to manufacture and deliver 100 million doses of the company ’s Covid 19 vaccine once it is approved , according to a news release from the US Department of Health and Human Services . 
President Trump announced the deal during a media briefing on Tuesday . 
Moderna is one of several companies manufacturing the vaccine " at risk , " as the industry calls it , meaning the company is currently making the vaccine before it is approved . 
Clinical trials are currently underway to test whether it ’s safe and effective . 
Under this contract , worth up to $ 1.525 billion for 100 million doses , the doses would be owned by the US government and would be distributed and used as part of its Covid 19 vaccine campaign . 
If the doses are used , they would be provided to Americans at no cost . 
The government can also acquire up to an additional 400 million doses of this vaccine . 
The vaccine , called m RNA 1273 , was developed by Moderna in collaboration with the US government . 
It had development help from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease , and the US Biomedical Advance Research and Development Authority , known as BARDA , supported late stage clinical trials and has helped scale up manufacturing . 
Moderna ’s advanced stage clinical trial , which started July 27 , is the first government funded Phase 3 clinical trial for a Covid 19 vaccine in the United States . 
This contract is a part of the US government ’s Operation Warp Speed , the federal push to get vaccines and therapeutics to market as soon as safely possible . 
HHS said the goal is to get effective vaccines to the American people by the end of the year . 
The government has also reached a deal with Pfizer in July to produce 100 million doses of its vaccine . 
In August it reached a similar deal for 100 million doses with Janssen , the Johnson & Johnson vaccine arm , for its vaccine candidate . 
It has other deals with Glaxo Smith Kline , Sanofi Pasteur , Novavax and Astra Zeneca . 
There are 28 Covid 19 vaccines in human trials , according to the World Health Organization . 
