With just one day until the US election , the country is averaging 81,336 new Covid 19 cases per day , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
Several swing states are currently seeing their highest average of new cases . 
Here is a quick look at Covid 19 in each of the key battleground states : Arizona Arizona currently averages 1,330 new Covid 19 cases per day . 
New cases are up 33 % from last week , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
Hospitalizations had greatly decreased from the summer , but are now surging , according to The Covid Tracking Project . 
Currently , Arizona averages 872 hospitalizations a day , which is up 8 % from last week . 
Arizona has no statewide mask mandate in place . 
Florida Florida currently averages 4,111 new Covid 19 cases per day . 
New cases are up 22 % from last week , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
Florida has averaged more than 1,000 new cases a day for a staggering 149 days , since June 6 . 
The state has the third highest cumulative case count and the fourth highest death count in the nation , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
Florida has no statewide mask mandate . 
Michigan Michigan is at its peak of new cases , reporting roughly 3,113 new cases a day over the last seven days -- up 50 % from last week . 
Hospitalizations across the state are not even close to their peak back in April , but have surpassed 1,000 a day since October 15 , according to The Covid Tracking Project . 
Michigan requires face masks to be worn in public places statewide . 
North Carolina North Carolina is at its peak of new cases , reporting roughly 2,370 new cases a day over the last seven days -- up 18 % from last week . 
Hospitalizations average 1,183 patients a day , according to The Covid Tracking Project -- that 's roughly even with the state 's figures during the summer . 
The governor said the state would remain in Phase 3 of reopening as cases and hospitalizations started to rise in recent weeks . 
North Carolina requires face masks to be worn in public places statewide . 
Pennsylvania Pennsylvania is averaging 2,243 new cases per day , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
This is the highest the state 's new daily cases have ever been -- up 31 % from last week . 
Hospitalizations have increased sharply across the state since the end of September , data from The Covid Tracking Project shows . 
Pennsylvania requires face masks to be worn in public places statewide . 
Wisconsin Wisconsin is averaging 4,385 new cases per day -- down 4 % from last week , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
Deaths across the state are at a record high since the pandemic began , with an average of 38 people dying each day over the past seven days . 
Hospitalizations in the state are at the highest level they have been since the start of the pandemic . 
Wisconsin requires face masks to be worn in public places statewide . 
