The streets of New York -- and many major cities across the US -- are hauntingly empty as the pandemic leaves most of the country on lockdown . 
This chilling sign of the times brings to mind a big question : After the pandemic passes , will some people choose to leave big city life behind ? 
That trend was already starting to emerge in parts of the country , even before coronavirus hit . 
Now the pandemic is changing the way we talk about city life . 
And some experts say it could change who opts to live in them . 
" It 's hard to think about living in New York when we do not have our existence and our careers there , " says Ashley Arcement , a dancer , singer and actor who headed to a friend 's house in Florida with her boyfriend , a pianist , after Broadway shut down in March . 
With Broadway closed , restaurants open only for takeout and many working from home -- if they still have a job -- the city that never sleeps is looking downright dormant . 
But that was not the case a few months ago , when coronavirus started to spread through America 's largest and densest city . 
New York quickly became the epicenter of the country 's coronavirus outbreak , spurring stay at home orders from officials to keep contagion at bay . 
While the number of new cases in New York has started decreasing , the death toll continues to climb . 
More than 12,000 coronavirus deaths have been confirmed in the city . 
" Why New York ? 
Why are we seeing this level of infection ? 
Well , why cities across the country ? " said New York Governor Andrew Cuomo at a news briefing last month . 
On the other side of the country , Joel Kotkin says the situation is notably different . 
In am opinion piece published in the Los Angeles Times , Kotkin credited that city 's sprawling development with slowing the spread of coronavirus . 
The executive director of the Houston based Urban Reform Institute , Kotkin says that cities were already in trouble . 
And in the age of social distancing , he says , dense cities particularly have a lot going against them . 
Read more : 
