American cast and crew will be able to travel to the Czech Republic and Hungary to work on film and TV productions , despite European Union 's ban on travelers from the US , heads of those countries ' national film commissions indicated . 
Zipkova explained that filmmakers will be provided with two documents — a " Confirmation of Performance of Economic Activities in the Interest of the Czech Republic , " signed by Czech Culture Minister Lubomir Zaoralek , and a " Declaration Concerning Arrival of a Foreign Crew Member " by the director of the Czech Film Fund , Helena Bezdek Frankova . 
In a similar move , Hungarian Film Commissioner Csaba Káel told CNN " special exemption can be granted for non EU residents to enter Hungary without mandatory quarantine . " 
Some background : The EU has published a list of 14 countries from outside the union whose citizens can enter from July 1 based on a set of health criteria , but the US was excluded from that list due to the rise in coronavirus infections in some parts of the country . 
The criteria does allow for exemptions for " highly qualified " essential workers and can be expanded to include further categories of travelers . 
The final decision on who can enter a country rests with the member state . 
In 2019 more than 80 films and television series were made in the Czech Republic , contributing $ 393 million to the country ’s economy , according to the Czech Film Commission . 
Filming is currently paused on Marvel ’s and Disney + The Falcon and the Winter Soldier , and Amazon ’s Carnival Row , according to the commission . 
Hungary 's National Film Institute says the country is " the most popular filming destination in continental Europe " and that large scale productions spent more than $ 565 million there in 2019 . 
With sound stages " booked up for the entire year , " Hungary 's National Film Institute has released a series of Covid 19 guidelines for filmmakers to ensure the health and safety of cast and crew , which Káel hopes will " make it possible to restart production at full capacity . " 
One of those productions is Denis Villeneuve ’s big budget sci fi movie Dune , which was partly filmed in the country last year , with shooting scheduled to resume in August , according to Hungary 's National Film Institute . 
