Hispanics and Black Americans are dying at a disproportionate rate due to Covid 19 , a new report from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found . 
The study published Friday in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly report looked at the shifting demographics of deaths from the pandemic over the summer . 
Between May and August , 114,411 Americans lost their lives to Covid 19 . 
Elderly White men were among the largest number of deaths . 
But Black people accounted for nearly 18 % of the deaths in this time period , despite making up just 12.5 % of the US population . 
Hispanics accounted for more than 24 % of deaths , but make up 18.5 % of the population . 
The demographics started to shift in the summer . 
The percentage of Hispanics who died increased from 16 % to more than 26 % of overall deaths between May and August , while the proportion of those who died who were White or Black decreased . 
The CDC said that there was a geographic shift in deaths . 
The highest concentration of deaths early in the pandemic were in the Northeast , but the numbers shifted West and Southward . 
The geographic difference , though , ca not account for the increase in the percentage of deaths among the Hispanic community , the CDC said . 
Researchers think the pandemic has been harder on the Hispanic community because they may have had a higher exposure to Covid 19 due to their work . 
Hispanics also are more likely to live in multifamily households or live with many generations in one family , making it hard to social distance . 
Nearly a quarter of all the deaths in the pandemic have been in places where people live in group settings at a nursing home or long term care facilities . 
Many of those deaths happened early on in the pandemic . 
But as nursing homes stopped allowing outside visitors and were more aggressively testing residents and isolating those who were sick , those deaths have slowed down and there has been a shift toward younger and noninstitutionalized populations over the course of the pandemic . 
To limit the spread of the disease , the CDC continues to recommend people use face coverings , wash their hands frequently , keep physical distance from others and avoid large gatherings . 
