Researchers have said that governments ’ failure to recognise the land rights of indigenous communities and their role in protecting biodiversity could lead to more coronavirus like pandemics , PA Media reports . 
A study of more than 40 countries found many local people ’s land claims were being ignored , amid increasing deforestation and wildlife exploitation , which may be contributing to a rise in diseases , like Covid 19 , that pass from animals to humans . 
Andy White of the Rights and Resources Initiative ( RRI ) , the study ’s co author , said in a statement : Despite compelling evidence that indigenous peoples , local communities , and Afro descendants protect most of the world ’s remaining biodiversity , they are under siege from all sides . 
Our work suggests the answer is to invest in the countries and communities that are ready to scale up land rights . 
Failure to do so puts at risk the health of the planet and all of its people . 
The study by the RRI - an alliance of more than 150 organisations advocating for community land rights - comes ahead of a United Nations pledge expected to be agreed in 2021 to set aside 30 % of the planet ’s land and sea for conservation by 2030 . 
Despite local people managing and protecting 50 % of the area studied - which included Brazil , India , China , Kenya , the Democratic Republic of Congo and Indonesia - governments recognised only half of community land claims , RRI said . 
This needs to be addressed urgently , said researchers , as a growing number of zoonotic diseases including Ebola , MERS , West Nile fever , Zika , SARS and Rift Valley fever have recently jumped from animal hosts into the human population . 
The most dramatic example is coronavirus , which is believed to have emerged in a market in China last year after jumping the species barrier from the animal kingdom to infect humans . 
It has killed more than 930,000 people across the globe so far . 
Anthony Waldron , a conservation finance researcher based at Cambridge University , told a virtual briefing that securing indigenous peoples ’ land rights was key to stemming the spread of such diseases . 
If there is chaotic development in a forest where people and wildlife are coming more into contact with one another , then it ’s only a matter of time before a virus jumps into the human population . 
If you do not have defined land rights , you do not know who owns what part and anyone can happily invade . 
If you have clearly defined land rights ... which indigenous groups can manage ... there is smaller risk those viruses can jump . 
About 60 % of known infectious diseases in humans and 75 % of all emerging infectious diseases are zoonotic , largely due to the increased interaction between humans , animals and the environment , according to the United Nations . 
Most efforts to control zoonotic diseases have been reactive rather than proactive , said environmental experts , calling on governments to invest in public health , farm sustainability , end over exploitation of wildlife and reduce climate change . 
