Temperature and symptom based screening programs do not help catch coronavirus cases , the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said in a new report that took a closer look at the programs used at US airports until mid September . 
In January , the CDC started an enhanced screening program for air passengers arriving from certain countries with widespread transmission of the novel coronavirus . 
The goal was to find travelers who were sick and separate them from other passengers ; to share information with travelers about self monitoring ; and to get their contact information that could be shared with the passenger ’s local public health department . 
The CDC said this was a resource intensive program that had a low case detection rate . 
Between January 17 and September 13 , the CDC screened more than 766,000 travelers . 
Nearly 300 met the criteria for public health assessment , 35 were tested for the coronavirus , and 9 tested positive . 
That means the program identified about one case per 85,000 travelers screened , the CDC reported Thursday in the agency ’s weekly report . 
This style of screening does not seem to work for a few reasons . 
Covid 19 has a wide range of nonspecific symptoms common to other infections ; there are a high number of asymptomatic cases ; travelers may deny symptoms or take steps to avoid detection ; and passenger data was limited . 
The CDC also only shared contact information with local health departments for 68 % of the passengers it screened . 
There were data collection problems , the report said , and some states opted out of receiving the information . 
The CDC ended the program September 14 . 
Instead , the CDC has concentrated on communicating more with travelers to promote recommended preventive measures . 
The agency has also enhanced the public health response capacity at ports of entry . 
The CDC said travelers and their local communities would be better protected if there was " more efficient " collection of contact information for international air passengers before they arrive and real time data that could be sent to US health departments . 
Pre departure testing within 72 hours before the trip , and post arrival testing would help , as would rules that would encourage a traveler to self isolate for a certain period . 
