New York Gov . 
Andrew Cuomo announced today that state will begin using hospitalizations as a main metric to determine cluster zones and closures across the state Hospitalization rates are increasing across the state , Cuomo said , adding that " every region is dealing with a hospital issue now , " and that capacity is the top concern . 
" We are now worried about overwhelming the hospital system , " Cuomo said . 
The governor said he is talking to hospital administrators across the state . 
" We want to know where they are today with their capacity , with their PPE , et cetera , " Cuomo said . 
" We learned this lesson the hard way . 
We have about 54,000 hospital beds in this state , we were told we would need about 120,000 . 
We lived this nightmare . 
We learned from this nightmare , and we 're going to correct for the lessons we learned during this nightmare . " 
New York state has a 4.5 % positivity rate currently , Cuomo said . 
In addition to using hospitalizations as a main metric to trigger zone designations and closures , Cuomo also outlined four additional strategies the state will employ to combat the spread of Covid 19 : increasing testing across the state , working towards vaccine distributions , keeping schools open safely and keeping the 10 person limit on private gatherings that the governor announced earlier in the fall . 
Cuomo said that the goal was to keep K 8 schools open wherever it was safe . 
The state will implement testing on a weekly basis for schools in orange and red zones . 
He also emphasized the importance of having a balanced distribution of testing among various groups — health care workers , school workers and the general traveling population . 
On the vaccine , he said that delivery could start in the next few weeks , and that he is working with fellow governors on distribution plans , but noting that widespread distribution will likely not occur until " late spring or early summer . " 
He noted that the state will be doing outreach to Black and brown communities , as well as lower income communities . 
