The UK prime minister Boris Johnson confirmed plans to open up more of the economy from Saturday , including giving the go ahead to delayed plans to resume socially distanced indoor performances and allowing beauty salons to offer more treatments in England . 
The moves were postponed from 1 August due to concerns about a slight increase in the number of people in England testing positive for Covid 19 but that now appears to have levelled off . 
From 15 August : The changes will not apply in the specific areas where local restrictions are in place . 
Johnson said : Most people in this country are following the rules and doing their bit to control the virus , but we must remain focused and we cannot be complacent . 
That is why we are strengthening the enforcement powers available to use against those who repeatedly flout the rules . 
At every stage I have said our plan to reopen society and the economy is conditional and that it relies on continued progress against the virus . 
Today , we are able to announce some further changes which will allow more people to return to work and the public to get back to more of the things they have missed . 
However , as I have always said , we will not hesitate to put on the brakes if required , or to continue to implement local measures to help to control the spread of the virus . 
New guidance will also mean that staff offering " close contact " services , including hairdressers , will now have to wear a face mask as well as a clear visor . 
The move , which follows new evidence from the scientific advisory group for emergencies ( Sage ) is aimed at protecting customers and staff from respiratory droplets caused by sneezing , coughing , or speaking . 
The guidance also applies to businesses that operate remotely , such as massage therapists working in people ’s homes , and those learning in vocational training environments . 
More detail on the new enforcement measures will be set out in the coming week . 
The home secretary Priti Patel said she would not allow progress in tackling the virus to be undermined by " a small minority of senseless individuals " . 
These measures send a clear message - if you do not cooperate with the police and if you put our health at risk , action will follow . 
