Global coronavirus cases have now surpassed 8 million , including more than 436,000 deaths . 
If you 're just joining us , here are the latest developments . 
China races to contain new cluster : At least 29 neighborhoods are under lockdown in Beijing as 106 Covid 19 cases linked to the city 's Xinfadi wholesale market have been confirmed in the past five days . 
Health officials confirmed the virus from the market cluster has spread to at least three other provinces , including Hebei , Sichuan and Liaoning . 
Cases increasing in 18 US states : Weeks after lifting stay at home orders , some US states are seeing their highest numbers of hospitalizations from Covid 19 as thousands more Americans get infected every day . 
A coronavirus model is now forecasting there will be more than 201,000 deaths in the country by October 1 . 
New Zealand cases : New Zealand reported two new cases after more than three weeks of reporting no new infections . 
The two patients are both women from the same family who arrived in the country from the UK . 
Childhood syndrome may take weeks to show : A baffling condition called multi inflammatory syndrome in children ( MIS C ) started showing up in kids about three weeks after the peak of the pandemic passed through , new research shows . 
The New York team reported on 33 cases of the syndrome , which many doctors believe is some sort of delayed response to a coronavirus infection . 
Airlines step up enforcement of masks : Major US airlines announced they intend to more strictly enforce mask wearing aboard their planes , including potentially banning passengers who refuse to wear one . 
Seven major airlines -- including American Airlines , Delta Air Lines , Southwest Airlines and United Airlines -- pledged to roll out new policies . 
Imperial College London begins human vaccine trials : Researchers will begin human trials of a UK government funded Covid 19 vaccine . 
Starting this week , 300 healthy participants between the ages of 18 and 70 will receive two doses of the vaccine . 
