Spit into a cup when you land in an airport , and your DNA is stored . 
Every phone in every city talks to every other nearby device , their exchanges floating somewhere in the ether . 
Cross border travel is enabled only by governments sharing data about millions of private movements . 
These are all possible visions of a future that the coronavirus pandemic has rushed on us -- decades of change effected , it sometimes feels , in just weeks . 
But a lurch into an even more intense era of mass data collection -- the vast hoovering up of who went near whom and when , who is healthy to travel , and even scraps of personal DNA languishing in databases -- appears to be on the verge of becoming the new reality . 
Will this grave new world intensify our desire for privacy , or extinguish what little left of it we had ? 
It took the attacks of September 11 , 2001 to shove aside the previous decade 's phobia of mass surveillance , and usher in an era where many of us imagined the state was probably skimming our emails , in exchange for keeping us safe from terror . 
Over the next 15 years , billions of people agreed to a tacit deal where Facebook or Google were permitted to learn a staggering amount about them in exchange for free access to messaging apps , news , and shared pictures of a baby dancing , or a dog driving a car . 
Eventually , that mutated into the heights exemplified by Cambridge Analytica -- private companies hoovering up the online lives of tens of millions in order to try to sway elections . 
But the challenge presented by Covid 19 -- and the urgent need to trace contacts and movements -- represents another scale of intimacy . 
South Korea located over 10,000 cellphones near its latest outbreak and texted them to suggest a coronavirus test . 
The UK government has toyed with a centralized database of movements and health records , secured by government cyber spies , able potentially to see who has been sick and who they have been near . 
Russia and many others have issued QR codes . 
China is putting surveillance cameras right outside people 's doors . 
Read more here 
