My colleague Mario Koran in Oakland reports that four of the 167 passengers aboard a quarantine flight from Wuhan to a Marine Corps air station near San Diego were sent to local hospitals shortly after their plane touched down yesterday morning . 
The San Diego Union Tribune said that none of the American citizens returning to the US showed any symptoms when they boarded the flight , but medical screenings done after their arrival revealed that four people ( three adults and one child ) showed symptoms that may have been caused by the coronavirus that has caused 25,000 people worldwide to fall ill and killed nearly 500 in China . 
So far there have been no confirmed cases of coronavirus infection among the passengers ; the most recent tally of confirmed cases includes six in California and 11 nationwide . 
The San Diego air station is one of three military bases in California being used as a quarantine site . 
Three additional bases outside California are also designated quarantine locations . 
While the common flu remains a more significant threat to public health in the United States , the novel nature of the coronavirus has fuelled global attention , writes the Union Tribune . 
Earlier this week , the Guardian reported that experts are warning the travel restrictions issued by the Trump administration and quarantine of roughly 200 people in California — the first mass quarantine in the US in more than 50 years — may backfire . 
A quarantine can be counterproductive if it appears to be overly strict and broad and diminishes the public ’s trust in authorities , one expert told Sam Levin , adding that the government should use the " least restrictive " options available and not " limit people ’s rights and liberty to a greater extent than is necessary " . 
" We should do the utmost to protect public health . 
But we have to make sure the measures we ’re implementing are not worse than the virus itself , " Jennifer Nuzzo , the senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security , told Levin . 
