Guatemalan hospitals say they have had to bury dozens of Covid 19 victims who have never been identified , and one hospital is creating archives in hopes that once the pandemic passes , their relatives will come looking for them . 
Workers at one of the country ’s largest public hospitals have started photographing patients who arrive alone and too ill to give their personal details . 
Those who die unidentified are placed in body bags with transparent windows over the faces in case relatives do arrive . 
Protocols that call for rapidly burying the dead during a pandemic only make the situation more difficult , officials say . 
The government has reported more than 47,000 confirmed infections and more 1,800 deaths nationwide . 
The first of 63 unidentified dead at the San Juan de Dios Hospital , one of the capital ’s largest , died on 25 April . 
She was in her 20s and was buried the same day . 
Byron Fuentes , director of the health ministry ’s Public Cemetery Administration , said that so far no one has come forward seeking any of the 41 men and 22 women they have buried , identified only as XX . One death certificate viewed by The Associated Press showed the person identified only as XX XX , XX XX , with the gender and an estimated age . 
For cause of death it listed acute respiratory distress syndrome and Covid 19 . 
For now , the unidentified Covid 19 victims are buried in a designated area deep in the capital ’s Verbena Cemetery . 
Surrounded by trees and near a settlement of improvised housing , unadorned graves are simply marked with a number . 
For relatives who may one day seek out their loved ones , there is little to go on . 
Officials estimate an age , record the gender and the hospital where they arrived . 
Relatives would have to provide information to match those limited details , said Fuentes , the cemeteries chief . 
Even then confirmation would be complicated . 
" The law establishes that when someone dies from a quarantined illness , they ca not be exhumed , " he said . 
" The same law gives us an exception , but it is on a judges order , the judge would be the one responsible . " 
" Since we stated to bury , we have not received any requests from anyone looking for a relative , " Fuentes said . 
