The Nasdaq Composite tumbled nearly 5 % and the Dow fell more than 800 points , as investors made a dash for the exits following a streak of record setting days over the past several weeks . 
It was the worst day for stocks since June . 
Stocks erased all their gains after a huge bout of exuberance Wednesday , when the S&P 500 — the broadest measure of Wall Street — and the Nasdaq hit yet another record high . 
The Nasdaq had also climbed above 12,000 points for the first time in history Wednesday . 
But it did not stick . 
Thursday was the Nasdaq 's largest one day decline from a record high in its history , according to Bespoke Investment Group . 
All three major indexes finished the day sharply lower . 
The Nasdaq closed down nearly 5 % , and the S&P fell 3.5 % , while the Dow finished 2.8 % , or 808 points , lower . 
So , what happened ? 
For one , the Nasdaq has been outperforming the other two major stock indexes — the Dow and the S&P 500 — for months . 
The rally has been going on for long enough that investors are now taking profit . 
Even so , the Nasdaq remains up nearly 28 % in 2020 , still far outpacing its counterparts . 
The Dow , which only recently turned positive for the year , is back in the red . 
But there are also technical reasons for Thursday 's decline : As US China relations sour , investors are moving money out of tech , which could get hit the hardest from a potential increase in tariffs . 
The Big Tech companies such as Amazon , Google and Microsoft , all of which are part of the Nasdaq , have become the safe haven investment of the summer . 
But investors have beginning to wonder when the rally will run out of steam , either because of increased regulation or because the economy as a whole picks up enough to void the need for safety picks altogether . 
Tech stocks were among Thursday 's worst performers . 
But even investors who are still faithful to their safe tech holdings have reason to be a little concerned : Dr . Anthony Fauci , director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious diseases , told CNN Thursday that a Covid 19 vaccine by October remained " unlikely , " though it was possible . 
Making matters worse , Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell said late Wednesday that " the cooperative spirit we had in March and April " on Capitol Hill has " dissipated as we move closer and closer to the election . " 
This does not bode well for Congress agreeing on another stimulus bill , which the market has been hoping for . 
