New York City has opened new traveller checkpoints to register visitors and residents returning from nearly three dozen states who are required to quarantine for 14 days , an initiative that drew swift criticism from privacy advocates . 
The checkpoints , targeting busy entry points like Penn Station , are more of an awareness campaign than a blockade , intended to preserve the city ’s progress reducing its Covid 19 infection rate and forestall a second wave as the coronavirus ravages other states . 
Authorities said this week a fifth of all new coronavirus cases in New York City have been from travellers entering the city from other states . 
The random checks are similar to an effort already in place at airports and includes offers of free food delivery , and in some cases even hotel stays , for people who must quarantine . 
Teams began stopping travellers arriving in the city by train on Thursday , requiring they complete a state Department of Health traveller form and warning they could face fines as high as $ 10,000 for failing to quarantine . 
The checkpoints do not involve the police , but the city ’s Sheriff ’s Office , which enforces civil law , said it would pull over motorists at random on city bridges . 
" If were going to hold at this level of health and safety in this city and get better , we have to deal with the fact that the quarantine must be applied consistently to anyone who ’s travelled , " mayor Bill de Blasio said . 
Despite the spectre of fines , the checkpoints are more educational than punitive , and officials acknowledged the effort relies on voluntary compliance . 
" Were not going to be in everyone ’s apartment monitoring them , " de Blasio said . 
" Even if we ’re not going to be able to reach every single person with a checkpoint , I think its going to help really get the message across . " 
The campaign was criticised for sowing confusion and raising questions about how travellers ’ personal information would be retained . 
It ’s not clear how long the registration checkpoints will remain in place . 
De Blasio said the city will use the approach for " as long as we think makes sense and as extensively as we think makes sense " . 
