Greece has recorded more than 5,000 coronavirus cases after a spurt in new infections that sparked a " wake up week " . 
The national public health organisation announced 153 cases over the last 24 hours , raising the total to over 5,100 . 
There have been 210 deaths so far . 
The highest amount of daily cases announced was 156 on 21 April , following a mass outbreak at a migrant hotel near Athens . 
Late on Thursday , the civil protection agency announced emergency restrictions on the small holiday island of Poros near Athens . 
These include a night curfew for all restaurants and bars to 17 August , and a ban on fairs and open markets , after over a dozen cases were reported on the island . 
A ban on gatherings of over nine people was declared on Poros , even inside homes , and masks have been made obligatory both outdoors and indoors . 
Greece on Wednesday announced a " wake up week " on Covid 19 , tightening restrictions after the steady rise in mostly domestic infections . 
Officials have blamed the increase on overcrowding in clubs and social events . 
Only 10 % of cases in Greece can be traced to foreign arrivals , prime minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis told a cabinet meeting on Wednesday . 
Earlier on Thursday , the government said Greece ’s land borders would close at night to travellers , except one crossing with Bulgaria . 
Petsas said : We have located three sources of concern : very regular crossings from Balkan countries by ethnic Greeks and residence permit holders ... social gatherings , including clubbing youths , weddings and baptisms , and public transport . 
The public protection agency last week said masks must be worn in all indoor public areas , and visits to retirement homes and other institutions hosting vulnerable groups are restricted until 15 August . 
A limit of 100 guests was also set for weddings , baptisms and funerals , and summer fairs were cancelled . 
Mitsotakis has already ruled out a general lockdown after gradually reopening the economy in May and starting to accept foreign arrivals in June to salvage part of the tourism season that is vital to the economy . 
