Boris Johnson has just imposed the most stringent social restrictions on the British public since the end of the World War II . With immediate effect , the public is being instructed by the prime minister to stay at home . 
The only exceptions are : shopping for basic necessities ; one form of exercise a day ; any medical need ; and , for the designated key workers , traveling to and from work . 
If they do not follow the rules , police will have the power to enforce the rules by dispersing gatherings and fines . 
The move comes after weeks of criticism that the Johnson has not taken the coronavirus outbreak seriously enough , as Britain 's European counterparts had moved faster and harder . 
In fact , even after this latest announcement , the UK 's response is still behind countries like Germany , France and Italy . 
What 's taken him so long ? 
Johnson is not naturally comfortable with removing anyone 's personal liberties . 
Throughout his career , Johnson has been disparaging about ideas of the " nanny state " and disdainful of the political instincts of those who use the state to tell the public what to do . 
In a 2004 newspaper column , Johnson wrote of a proposed smoking ban : " We should have the common sense to listen to others before we presume to act in their interests . " 
Mocking those who were in favor of the ban , he wrote : " Next thing , I said , you 'll be wanting to ban drink in order to remove any temptation to get drunk , or ban cars , to avoid ever being tempted to drive too fast … " Johnson 's reluctance to tell others what to do goes beyond gags about drinks . 
In the same column , he made reference to the Iraq war — and attacked the government of the time ( now the opposition Labour party ) who " decided , from a position of such ignorance , that the best way to help Iraq was to kill so many of its people . " 
This stuff runs deep for Johnson . 
He has spent decades honing his image as a liberal Conservative who believes people should be free to live their lives how they wish . 
It is a seam which has run through his entire professional career : from editing magazines to running the official Brexit campaign . 
Johnson has for years defined his political views as driven by personal liberty . 
It might go some way to explaining why the new rules might be a little less drastic than they initially sound . 
Yes , the police can break up gatherings of people and impose fines , but no mention of detention ( which would be defensible under human rights law ) . 
And the rules will be reviewed in three weeks , the prime minister 's advisers were keen to remind journalists . 
Yes , these measures are a big deal for the UK , as it slowly comes to terms with how serious this crisis really is . 
But Johnson will hope that the message towards the end of his address , " no Prime Minister wants to enact measures like this , " will have reached the audience at home . 
And his team will be crossing their fingers that whenever these measures are lifted , it 's remembered that this was done with the heaviest of hearts . 
