A British railway ticket office worker has died from Covid 19 after being spat on while she was working at Victoria station , in central London , her union , the Transport Salaried Staffs Association ( TSSA ) , revealed on Tuesday . 
Belly Mujinga , 47 , had an underlying health condition and on March 22nd she and a colleague were on shift , on the concourse by the ticket office for Govia Thameslink Railway ( GTR ) , when a member of the public assaulted them , spat and coughed over them and told the two that he had the novel coronavirus . 
Mujinga died two weeks later on April 5 . 
According to TSSA , Mujinga and her colleague pleaded for police to be called onto the scene . 
In a statement to CNN , British Transport Police said they have now launched an investigation into the incident . 
" Enquiries are ongoing , " it added in the statement . 
Mujinga had underlying respiratory problems for which she had had an operation , regular hospital appointments and had previously needed to take time off work , according to TSSA . 
The association says GTR knew about her condition and , even after the incident , only stood Mujinga down after her doctor called her work around March 25 . 
GTR is investigating the accusations , it said in a statement to CNN on Tuesday . 
Both Mujinga and her colleague fell ill from Covid 19 within days of the assault , according to TSSA . 
On April 2 , just 11 days after the incident , Mujinga was taken to Barnet Hospital in an ambulance and put on a ventilator . 
The TSSA also reported the incident to the Railways Inspectorate , which is the safety arm of the Office for Road and Rail ( ORR ) . 
A spokesperson for the ORR told CNN on Monday the office was investigating the incident . 
TSSA revealed Mujinga ’s story as the British Government urged some people to return to work if they are not able do it from home , easing some of the restrictions it had put in place to stop the spread of the novel coronavirus . 
" Rather than talking about the easing the lockdown , the government must first ensure that the right precautions and protections have been taken so that more lives are not lost , " TSSA ’s Cortes said . 
" Our rail industry needs to have a very serious look at what tasks are deemed ‘ essential ’ and must put protections in place for all our members and our passengers . " 
The TSSA also called on the Government to implement additional measures to compensate frontline workers from the railway industry for their work during these difficult times . 
