The vice chairman of the Massachusetts Republican State Committee was hospitalized with Covid 19 days after attending a White House Hanukkah party , he said in an interview with CNN affiliate WCVB . 
Massachusetts GOP official Tom Mountain said he felt fine when he went to the December 9 event . 
Mountain said that earlier in the pandemic he " felt as though ( he ) was invincible " and did not " have to wear a mask the entire time . " 
" Once you get into the main ballroom people -- they ’re eating , they ’re mingling , they ’re getting pictures taken with the celebrities that are there . 
So very few people were wearing masks . " 
It 's not certain that Mountain contracted the virus at that event . 
Health experts say the typical incubation period for Covid 19 is up to 14 days , and patients typically show symptoms within five days of exposure . 
Research shows people are most contagious in the days before they show symptoms -- if they show them at all . 
What the White House says : Neither the White House nor the East Wing responded to CNN ’s request for comment . 
In a statement earlier in December , East Wing chief of staff Stephanie Grisham said attending the White House holiday events would be a " very personal choice . " 
Grisham said the Christmas and Hannukah celebrations would have smaller guest lists , masks would be provided , and social distancing would be encouraged . 
But images from multiple parties viewed by CNN showed that many attendees did not wear masks . 
What happened to Mountain : Mountain said he was hospitalized twice after contracting the virus , telling WCVB he came close to being put on a ventilator . 
The experience has given him a new outlook . 
" When you go in with the Covid , you do not know if you ’re going to come out . " 
" This is not the flu , this is not the common cold . 
This is something which is deadly serious , and it can have deadly consequences . " 
According to WCVB , four members of Mountain 's family were also infected . 
CNN has made multiple attempts to reach Mountain and the Massachusetts GOP . 
