Coronavirus is continuing to spread in Europe . 
While World Health Organization data today showed that Europe has recorded a 10 % decline in Covid 19 cases over the past week " for the first time in over three months , " deaths continued to increase . 
Deaths in Europe jumped by 18 % during the past week in comparison to the previous one . 
Here 's a look at where things stand in some countries across the continent : A mink farming ban in Denmark : Mink farming has been temporarily prohibited until Dec . 31 , 2021 . 
During the same period it will also be forbidden to import or export live minks to or from Denmark and between herds in Denmark . 
This temporary ban is part of an agreement reached between the government and parties supporting the government . 
The move follows fears that coronavirus mutations can pass between minks and humans . 
Record deaths in Poland : Poland recorded 603 coronavirus related deaths on Wednesday – a new daily record – bringing the total death toll to 11,451 , according to state news agency PAP . 
" 112 people died due to COVID 19 , while 491 people died due to the coexistence of COVID 19 with other diseases , " the Health Ministry said in a tweet . 
Protests over restrictions in Germany : An anti corona measures demonstration is taking place in central Berlin . 
Several thousand demonstrators assembled near the parliamentary district , according to a Berlin police spokesman . 
Police are using water cannons at the demonstration , television pictures show . 
Christmas plans in the United Kingdom : UK medical adviser Susan Hopkins said on Wednesday that some sort of Christmas is possible this season — however it requires everyone to abide restriction and get the number of cases as low as possible . 
Hopkins added that the final decision rests with the government . 
Hopkins stressed that if mixing during the Christmas were to happen , everyone would have to be very responsible and reduce those contacts again . 
CORRECTION : This post has been updated to reflect that Poland set a new record for daily Covid 19 deaths . 
