As the curve of new coronavirus cases begins to flatten in Italy , talks between the regions and the national government on the so called " Phase 2 " of restrictions are intensifying . 
Phase 2 is the next stage of Italy 's attempts to contain its devastating coronavirus epidemic ; it is expected to see the government gradually reopen the country 's economy following the advice of its scientific committee . 
" The data indicates that the number of people with symptoms are decreasing and that the curve is in a decreasing phase . 
It shows a country with different zones , with a different circulation intensity , " Silvio Brusaferro , head of the National Institute of Health said during a press conference on Friday . 
The Institute said that Italy 's number of cases wo not drop to zero by mid May , meaning that the infection will continue to circulate . 
Brusaffero said it will be extremely important to be able to identify possible outbreaks , carry out tests , tracing and isolation of contacts and eventually create red zones to contain the virus . 
On Monday , Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte is expected to hold a cabinet meeting , and on Wednesday he will talk with some of the regional governors to try and come up with a more coherent nationwide calendar for reopening . 
" May 4 is a date around which we have to build Phase 2 . 
I hope that there will be a meeting between the key figures as soon as possible ... but I want to be clear on one point : The battle is not won , " Health Minister Roberto Speranza told Italian radio on Monday . 
Regarding the " Immuni " contact tracing app , chosen by the government to track the spread of the virus in May , Speranza said it " is one of the tools in this crisis . " 
Speranza also stressed the importance of the question : " How we will reopen ? " and not necessarily : " When ? " 
" We are now equipping ourselves with a national guideline on how to meet this challenge , " Speranza added . 
Lombardy looks to emerge from lockdown : Last week Lombardy , the Italian region worst affected by coronavirus , where nearly half of the total number of deaths have been registered , presented guidelines for a reopening of production activities : diagnosis and testing , digitalisation , social distancing , and rights of workers . 
Lombardy is one of the richest regions in the EU , according to the latest Eurostat figures . 
The reopening of businesses " must take place in the maximum protection of health and sanitary provisions , " the Lombardy region said Sunday in a statement . 
However , the mayor of Milan , Beppe Sala , criticised the Lombardy region 's plan in an interview with the Financial Times on Monday . 
" I am very critical of ( Lombardy 's governor ) Fontana 's proposal . 
Lifting restrictions too soon could lead to extreme consequences , " he said . 
In an interview with Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera , Sala explained that next week , Milan would outline plans to reopen the city , reorganising public transport , staggering working hours to avoid rush hour , reopening schools , offering incentives to bars and restaurants , and a summer school option to help parents return to work . 
" Three conditions are necessary to reopen , " Sala explained . 
" The first is trivial : We are notified in advance , because public transport cannot be reorganised in 48 hours . 
The second is fundamental : We do our part by reorganising , for example , transport and subways , but if the others do not do their part , everything becomes useless , " Sala told the paper . 
