Athletes from around the world reacted Tuesday with a mixture of relief , sadness and goodwill to the postponement of the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games due to the coronavirus pandemic . 
The Olympics have never been delayed in their 124 year modern history , though they were canceled altogether in 1916 , 1940 and 1944 during World War I and World War II . Here 's how athletes are reacting : Eliud Kipchoge , an Olympic marathon champion , tweeted praise for the " wise decision " to postpone the Games until 2021 , adding that he looked forward " to come back to Japan to defend my Olympic title next year and witness a wonderful event . " 
Lilly King , USA 's double Olympic swimming Gold medallist from Rio 2016 , opted for a short and simple message , writing on Instagram : " Just one more year to get better # Tokyo2020 . " 
Thomas Roehler , Germany 's javelin gold medallist from the 2016 Olympic Games , also opted for brevity writing on Instagram : " Dreams are not cancelled , just postponed . " 
Teddy Riner , a double Olympic super heavyweight judo champion , offered an upbeat tone on Instagram writing : " See you in 2021 , Tokyo . 
First , we have a more important fight to win , " referring to stopping the coronavirus pandemic . 
Elia Viviani , Italy 's Olympic track cycling champion , agreed with the decision to postpone the Games , tweeting : " Today we are all struggling with a much bigger problem and although August still seems far away , the security for such a big event was very difficult . 
See you in 2021 ! " 
Dina Asher Smith , Britain 's 200m World champion , did not let the news dampen her spirits as she wrote on Instagram : " Same ( Fire emoji ) , new dates . 
Stay at home and stay safe everyone . " 
Katarina Johnson Thompson , 2019 World Champion heptathlete , put the decision into perspective , tweeting : " Waited eight years for this , what 's another one in the grand scheme of things ? 
As an athlete , it 's heartbreaking news about the Olympics being postponed until 2021 , but it 's for all the right reasons and the safety of everyone ! 
Stay indoors ! " 
Dafne Schippers , a 2016 Olympic Games 200m Silver medallist , wrote on Instagram to say she was looking forward to competing in Tokyo this summer but " for now we have to look at the bigger picture and do whatever it takes to beat the Coronavirus . " 
