Here 's a recap of major news that broke within the past few hours : Australia 's advises against mass gatherings of more than 500 people : Prime Minister Scott Morrison said the decision was made " based on the advice we have received today about the increasing number of cases and the evidence of community transmissions , " and will come into effect Monday . 
Australia has identified more than 140 coronavirus cases , Morrison said yesterday , and is an important test case as to whether warmer weather will help stop the virus from spreading . 
Canada 's first lady tests positive : Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau ’s wife , Sophie Grégoire Trudeau , tested positive for coronavirus , according to a statement from Trudeau ’s office . 
She is feeling well , only has mild symptoms , and will remain in isolation , the statement said . 
The Prime Minister has no symptoms but will be in isolation for 14 days , according to the statement . 
He is not being tested at this time because he is asymptomatic , and will continue his duties as normal . 
Here 's what Trudeau said on Twitter : The impact on the sports world grows : NBA Commissioner Adam Silver said the league 's hiatus due to the coronavirus " will most likely be at least 30 days " and did not rule out the possibility of the season being canceled . 
US Major League Soccer and the National Hockey League followed the NBA 's lead and suspended play , while Major League Baseball has pushed back the start of its season . 
And the PGA Tour announced late Thursday night that it is canceling The Players Championship taking place this week in Ponte Vedra Beach , Florida and other events through April 2 . 
Formula 1 has also canceled the Australian Grand Prix after a Mc Laren team member tested positive . 
In Europe , Callum Hudson Odoi of the English Premier League soccer club Chelsea has tested positive for coronavirus , the team announced on Thursday . 
Arsenal announced that manager Mikel Arteta tested positive for coronavirus earlier in the day . 
The English Premier League is set to hold an emergency meeting on Friday to discuss future matches . 
This post was updated to reflect that the Australian government is advising against mass gatherings . 
