Nazanin Zaghari Ratcliffe and her family must wait for another day to find out if her temporary release for a prison in Iran has been extended . 
The British Iranian mother was temporarily released from Evin prison in Tehran in response to the Covid 19 pandemic . 
Zaghari Ratcliffe ’s furlough was extended by two weeks in late March , and she was scheduled to return to prison on Saturday . 
No news for Nazanin and her family today . 
So another stressful day in limbo , waiting to hear if she 'll have to go back to jail . 
Amnesty International says : " There should be no question of her being sent back to Evin Prison - not in a few weeks ’ time , not ever . " 
The Free Nazanin Campaign said on Twitter that her family had not yet received a decision on whether or not her furlough is to be extended , and were told to return to the Prosecutors Office in Iran on Sunday . 
" Nazanin ’s family spoke with the Prosecutors Office today for an update on whether her furlough is to be extended beyond this weekend , or if she will have to return to prison , " the tweet said . 
" They were told to come back tomorrow for an answer . " 
Zaghari Ratcliffe has been living in relative isolation at her parents ’ house in Tehran while the country gets to grips with the outbreak . 
Nazanin 's family spoke with the Prosecutors Office today for an update on whether her furlough is to be extended beyond this weekend , or if she will have to return to prison . 
They were told to come back tomorrow for an answer . 
She has to wear an ankle tag during the furlough , and can only go within a 300 metre range of her parents ’ home . 
Zaghari Ratcliffe was arrested at Tehran ’s Imam Khomeini airport while travelling to show her young daughter , Gabriella , to her parents in April 2016 . 
She was sentenced to five years in prison over allegations , which she denies , of plotting to overthrow the Tehran government . 
She was later afforded diplomatic protection by the UK government , which argues that she is innocent and that her treatment by Iran failed to meet obligations under international law . 
