UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson has promised to " unleash the potential of the entire country " as he announced what he described as a " New Deal " for Britain to help its struggling economy recover from coronavirus . 
Likening his ambitions to rebuild the country to the achievements of Franklin D Roosevelt , who carried out an overhaul of the US economy in the wake of the Great Depression , Johnson said his government would be " powerful and determined and [ put ] its arms around people at a time of crisis . " 
The £ 5 billion ( $ 6.2bn ) plan will focus on infrastructure projects , which the government has said will fuel jobs and economic recovery . 
In recent weeks , Johnson 's pandemic response has been attacked across the political spectrum , as the UK has suffered one of the worst death tolls in the world . 
The country went into lockdown later than many other European nations , and the government 's core strategy to protect the national health service and abandon testing in the wider public on March 12 was widely criticized by public health experts , who believe it has led to thousands of unnecessary deaths in the community . 
Johnson has also been embroiled in a scandal surrounding his chief adviser , Dominic Cummings , who it emerged had traveled over 260 miles with his wife and child after developing virus symptoms . 
In economic terms , the UK is trying to stave off its worst downturn in more than 300 years . 
The country 's GDP contracted by more than 20 % in April , a record , following a 6 % decline in March . 
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development warned in June that the UK would suffer the worst downturn of any major economy this year . 
Scotland 's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon responded to Johnson 's plan on Tuesday , saying the stimulus fell " woefully short " of the money needed to put the UK " on a par with Germany . " 
" I also suspect there will be less to it than meets the eye in terms of genuinely new money , " she said on Twitter . 
