US president Donald Trump on Saturday accused members of an alleged " deep state " at the Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) , without providing evidence , of working to slow testing of Covid 19 vaccines until after the November presidential election . 
In a Twitter post , Trump said a deep state " or whoever " at the FDA was making it very difficult for drug companies to enroll people in clinical trials to test vaccines and therapies for coronavirus . 
The deep state , or whoever , over at the FDA is making it very difficult for drug companies to get people in order to test the vaccines and therapeutics . 
Obviously , they are hoping to delay the answer until after November 3rd . 
Must focus on speed , and saving lives ! 
@ Steve FDA The comment came after a top FDA official said on Thursday he would resign if the Trump administration approved a vaccine before it was shown to be safe and effective . 
" Obviously , they are hoping to delay the answer until after November 3rd . 
Must focus on speed , and saving lives ! , " Trump wrote , tagging FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn in the tweet . 
US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said it was a " dangerous statement " and that the president was " beyond the pale " for accusing the FDA of playing politics . 
The FDA could not immediately be reached for comment . 
Drug manufacturers in coordination with the FDA and National Institutes of Health are ramping up production while testing is underway in order to respond as soon as possible with a vaccine for Covid 19 , which has killed nearly 800,000 people worldwide . 
Trump often uses Twitter to criticise federal agencies , sometimes accusing them of being controlled by the " deep state " in an apparent reference to long serving staff who , in Trump ’s eyes , are determined to undermine his agenda . 
His tweet increases the pressure on the FDA after Peter Marks , director of its Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research , last week said on a conference call with government officials , pharmaceutical executives and academics that he would resign if the agency rubber stamped an unproven vaccine . 
Scientists , public health officials and lawmakers are worried that the Trump administration will push the FDA to approve a vaccine in advance of the vote , even if data from clinical trials do not support its widespread use . 
Marks , whose division regulates cutting edge biotech treatments , vaccines and gene therapies , told Reuters he has not faced any political pressure and that the FDA would be guided by science alone . 
Should that change , he said on Thursday , " I would feel obligated ( to resign ) because in doing so , I would indicate to the American public that there ’s something wrong . " 
