The Democratic led US House of Representatives passed a bill to provide the cash strapped Postal Service with $ 25 billion and block policy changes that have stirred concerns about mail in balloting ahead of the 3 November election . 
Under restrictions aimed at preventing the spread of coronavirus , the slow process of voting got under way after more than three hours of debate , during a rare Saturday session called by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi in the middle of the congressional August recess , Reuters reports . 
The Democratic bill , which passed on Saturday despite opposition from Republicans , would provide $ 25bn in aid for the USPS and prioritise election mail as " first class " , to ensure ballots arrive in time to be counted in an election in which the coronavirus pandemic will cast a shadow over in person voting . 
But it is unlikely to be taken up in the Republican controlled Senate . 
The White House strongly opposes the legislation and has said it would recommend that president Donald Trump veto the measure . 
With mail in voting expected to surge during the coronavirus pandemic , Trump has alarmed Democrats by repeatedly denouncing mail in ballots as a possible source of fraud . 
Postmaster General Louis De Joy recently suspended cost cutting measures that have slowed deliveries in recent weeks . 
Democrats , who accuse Trump of trying to discourage mail in balloting to gain an electoral advantage over Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden , cast themselves as defenders of a public that relies on the Postal Service for vital deliveries including prescription drugs . 
" The American people do not want anyone messing with the Post Office . 
They certainly do not want it to be politicized . 
They just want their mail , they want their medicines and they want their mail in ballots delivered in a timely way . 
And that is exactly what our bill does , " said Democratic Representative Carolyn Maloney , who authored the legislation . 
Maloney also released a Postal Service document showing an 8 % slowdown in the processing of first class mail , most of it occurring after De Joy became postmaster in June . 
Republicans denied that the Postal Service was in any danger and criticized Democrats for moving legislation forward before De Joy could testify at a House hearing slated for Monday . 
" This is the result of a legislative process only slightly less absurd than the conspiracies , insinuations and fabrications that gave rise to the purported need for it , " said Republican Representative James Comer . 
As lawmakers prepared to vote , Trump took to Twitter to accuse Pelosi and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer of seeking unnecessary funding for the Postal Service and trying to pull off a " Universal Mail In Ballot Scam . " 
" Vote NO to the Pelosi/Schumer money wasting HOAX which is taking place now , " the president wrote . 
Representatives of the Post Office have repeatedly stated that they DO NOT NEED MONEY , and will not make changes . 
This is all another HOAX by the Democrats to give 25 Billion unneeded dollars for political purposes , without talking about the Universal Mail In Ballot Scam ... . . . . . that they are trying to pull off in violation of everything that our Country stands for . 
Vote NO to the Pelosi / Schumer money wasting HOAX which is taking place now . 
Then fight the $ 51 million unasked for Ballots . 
Only ABSENTEE BALLOTS are acceptable ! 
De Joy told a Senate committee on Friday that the Postal Service would deliver ballots " securely and on time " in the November election but said bigger changes could come after that . 
In fact , the House bill would prevent De Joy from taking any action that would impede service until after next January or the end of the coronavirus health emergency , whichever comes later . 
" Our legislation is not just about the election . 
It ’s about - surprise , surprise , Mr . Postmaster General - the coronavirus ! " , Pelosi told a news conference . 
