The White House has declined offers from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to help investigate the outbreak surrounding President Trump ’s Covid 19 diagnosis , according to a federal health official . 
The offer by the CDC to engage with efforts like contact tracing occurred almost immediately after the President revealed he had contracted the virus . 
Despite the concerns expressed by those at the CDC , including Director Robert Redfield , officials at the White House turned down the CDC ’s offer to help , the official said . 
The offer was repeated in a phone call on Monday , according to the source . 
Questions over contact tracing : The White House has shown little indication it is conducting a comprehensive effort to properly trace contacts from those exposed at events like the Supreme Court nomination ceremony two weekends ago . Almost no masks were worn at the event , and there was no social distancing both at the outdoor event and at the indoor reception . 
Some attendees said they have had no outreach , and others have said even when notified they were not asked the slate of questions typically used to document who else may have been exposed through contact . 
White House spokesperson Judd Deere said positive cases are taken seriously . 
A White House official says a CDC epidemiologist has been detailed to the White House since March and is assisting . 
No " substantial contact " with White House , despite " multiple attempts " : The DC government says it has gotten no response from the White House despite multiple efforts by political and health officials to get information . 
Mayor Muriel Bowser said Monday there had been no " substantial contact . " 
Bowser 's spokeswoman Susana Castillo says there have been " multiple attempts " since Friday to contact the White House at both the political and public health levels . 
This past weekend , White House press secretary Kayleigh Mc Enany said the White House would not be providing public information about how many staffers become sick , citing privacy concerns . 
Mc Enany herself publicly announced yesterday she was infected . 
Two of her aides have also tested positive . 
When asked for comment , the CDC referred all question to the White House . 
