Canada ’s National Research Council ( NRC ) has ended its partnership for a coronavirus vaccine with Can Sino Biologics , saying the Chinese company lacks the authority to ship the vaccine at this time . 
Can Sino in May had agreed to bring its vaccine candidate to Canada for testing through a partnership with the ( NRC ) . 
Because of the delay , NRC " has since moved on to focus our team and facilities on other partners , " the organisation said in a statement to Reuters . 
" The process is not clear to the NRC , but Can Sino does not have the authority to ship the vaccine at this time , " said NRC in its statement . 
Earlier , Can Sino cited bureaucratic indecision as the reason behind the failure for its vaccine partnership in Canada , the Globe and Mail reported , quoting the company ’s chief executive officer . 
Decisions in China on whether to send the vaccine to Canada were " caught in the bureaucracy " , and some divisions of the Chinese government were not clear if the vaccine should " go to global trials or how to handle it " , chairman and CEO of Can Sino Biologics , Dr Xuefeng Yu , told the Globe and Mail in an interview . 
NRC said its agreement with Can Sino had been reviewed by the company ’s Chinese government collaborators . 
After the agreement was signed , the Chinese government changed the process required to ship vaccines to other countries . 
Can Sino ’s vaccine candidate is one of the few being tested in a late stage study , as companies race to develop a safe and effective vaccine for Covid 19 . 
It is based on a modified version of a common cold virus called adenovirus type 5 that was first developed by a Canadian researcher , Frank Graham . 
Can Sino ’s Yu is a former Sanofi Canada executive . 
The company had previously worked with NRC on an Ebola vaccine based on the same technology , and with other Canadian researchers on an experimental tuberculosis vaccine . 
Quebec based Medicago is the only Canadian company with an experimental vaccine in human trials , with several other projects in earlier stages of development . 
The federal government recently announced deals to buy vaccine doses from Moderna and Pfizer . 
