A pivotal moment in China : Mainland China reported no new locally transmitted coronavirus cases for the first time since the the pandemic began . 
The country recorded 34 new cases of coronavirus yesterday -- all imported from overseas . 
Wuhan restrictions : The Chinese city at ground zero of the pandemic will need to see 14 consecutive days of no new cases before travel restrictions can be lifted , a top Chinese health expert said . 
Hubei lockdown eases : Months of lockdowns and travel restrictions affecting hundreds of millions of citizens are slowly easing . 
Inter provincial travel , which had previously been shut down entirely , is gradually resuming . 
People from other provinces are now allowed into Hubei province , of which Wuhan is the capital . 
South Korea measures : The country with the biggest outbreak outside of China in Asia reported seven more deaths on Wednesday , bringing the total there to 91 . 
South Korea has at least 8,565 cases of coronavirus , according to Johns Hopkins University , which is tracking cases reported by the World Health Organization ( WHO ) and additional sources . 
The government is supplying 50 trillion won ( $ 38.8 billion ) in emergency funding to support small business . 
South and Southeast Asia : Countries in South and Southeast Asia must " urgently scale up aggressive measures " and widespread testing to prevent the coronavirus from spreading further , said WHO officials . 
Bangladesh reported its first coronavirus death on Wednesday -- it has 14 cases in total . 
Thailand is now demanding health certificates from all travelers . 
The Philippines has been placed under a state of calamity for six months and at least half of the country is on lockdown , while Malaysia is under a nationwide movement restriction order . 
Second surge : Places like mainland China and Hong Kong are bracing for a potential second wave of infections , as people return from overseas , bringing the virus with them . 
Asia markets fall : Asian stocks and US futures sank Thursday despite a slew of steps unveiled to cushion the economic blow caused by the coronavirus . 
The Korean Exchange briefly suspended trading in Seoul after markets there plummeted . 
Australia 's S&P/ASX 200 was last down 4 % , Hong Kong 's Hang Seng Index fell 4.5 % , while China 's Shanghai Composite was last down 2.3 % . 
