The head of the Justice Department ’s civil rights division wrote in a strongly worded letter Friday to Los Angeles officials that he was concerned that the mayor and county health director were taking " an arbitrary and heavy handed approach to continuing stay at home requirements . " 
The letter from Eric Dreiband , assistant attorney general for the Civil Rights Division , came in response to comments from Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti , who asserted in a " Good Morning America " interview last week that the city will " never be completely open until we have a cure " for the coronavirus , which has claimed more than 3,600 lives in California . 
" I think we have to all recognize that we ’re not moving beyond Covid 19 , we ’re learning to live with it , " Garcetti said . 
Dreiband also noted recent remarks by Los Angeles County Public Health Director Barbara Ferrer , who said last week that " with all certainty " a form of stay home restrictions will remain in place for the county ’s 10 million residents " for the next three months . " 
Ferrer later clarified her remarks , saying " while the Safer at Home orders will remain in place over the next few months , restrictions will be gradually relaxed . " 
Earlier this month , California began reopening the state ’s economy , allowing some retail shops , manufacturers , and logistics businesses to return on May 8 . 
At least 43 of the state ’s 58 counties have been allowed to open even further , allowing additional retail shopping and dining in restaurants . 
Los Angeles , however , where more than 2,000 deaths linked to the coronavirus have been recorded , has moved more slowly . 
The DOJ 's warning : Dreiband warned in his letter to Garcetti and Ferrer that the continued restrictions may be " arbitrary and unlawful . " 
While local officials can impose restrictions on citizens to protect their safety during emergencies , Dreiband warned that " the Constitution and federal statutory law prohibit arbitrary , unreasonable actions . " 
" Simply put , there is no pandemic exception to the U.S . Constitution and its Bill of Rights , " he said . 
