There are mixed developments across Europe as the continent continues to grapple with the pandemic . 
Here is your latest roundup : France Daily coronavirus infections dipped slightly in France on Sunday , a day after the country recorded more than 10,000 new cases for the first time since the start of the pandemic . 
Health authorities say Sunday ’s total number of new cases was 7,183 , down from Saturday ’s record breaking number of 10,561 . 
Italy The Italian Health Ministry says six people have died of the virus in the past 24 hours , bringing the total number of pandemic deaths to 35,610 . 
Some Italian schools reopened Monday . 
Students and teachers have been given masks and hand sanitizer , but some schools have not received the new single person desks which are supposed to help with social distancing . 
Italy has a high percentage of teachers over the age of 50 , a group at greater risk from coronavirus . 
The number of patients in intensive care in Italy has been steadily increasing , reaching 187 on Sunday . 
Germany Case numbers continue to rise in Germany , albeit more slowly than in some other European countries . 
The number of total cases in the country increased by 927 to 260,335 , said the Robert Koch Institute , the national agency for disease control and prevention , on Monday . 
So far 9,350 people have died of the virus , with one additional death since Sunday . 
Meanwhile authorities say a 26 year old US citizen has caused a coronavirus spike in the town of Garmisch Partenkirchen . 
The unnamed woman had recently returned from a holiday abroad , according to Stephan Scharf , press officer of the District Administrator 's Office in the southern German town . 
Scharf told CNN he did not know which country she had returned from , but it had not been from the US . 
The woman developed Covid 19 symptoms , took a coronavirus test and was told to stay at home to wait for the results , said Scharf , but this did not stop her from going out and socializing . 
She has since received a positive test result and is in quarantine , said Scharf . 
UK Britain 's health care system is experiencing " significant demand " for coronavirus testing from people who do not have symptoms , its health department said Monday , amid reports that its testing program has a backlog of 185,000 test swabs . 
" [ National Health Service ] Test and Trace is working and our capacity is the highest it has ever been but we are seeing a significant demand for tests including from people who do not have symptoms and are not otherwise eligible , " a Department of Health and Social Care ( DHSC ) spokesperson told CNN . 
The UK recorded 3,330 new coronavirus cases on Sunday morning . 
Five more people have died , bringing the total official death toll to 41,628 . 
England is preparing for new restrictions to come into effect Monday after a recent rise in the infection rate . 
As of Monday , only six people can gather in England at any time . 
Switzerland Switzerland has added some regions in neighboring countries to its quarantine list , according to its Department of Health . 
Several French regions will be added to the list , including Provence Alpes Cote d ’Azur and Ile de France , which contains Paris . 
The Austrian capital of Vienna is also now on the quarantine list , as well as the whole of Spain . 
Some countries were removed from the list , including Ecuador , the Faroe Islands , Guatemala and South Africa . 
Switzerland reported 475 new cases on Sunday , taking the total to 47,179 . 
A total 1,747 people have died , with a further four on Sunday , according to the Department of Health . 
Czech Republic The Czech Republic set a new daily record for coronavirus infections , with 1,541 new cases recorded Saturday , according to its health ministry . 
The spike in cases coincides with increased testing , with an average of 15,000 people being tested every day . 
On Friday alone , 18,200 people took a test . 
A total of 453 people have so far died of coronavirus in the Czech Republic , and there have been 35,401 total infections . 
Sweden Sweden has lifted its travel warning for non essential travel to the UK . 
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs says the decision was taken because of the UK ’s " reduced Covid 19 risk , " and will take immediate effect . 
