Some countries are still responding to spikes in cases and deaths while in others , people are returning to normal life . 
Here 's what the pandemic looks like in Asia Pacific : India : The nationwide lockdown , affecting 1.3 billion people , was scheduled to lift on Sunday , May 3 -- but has since been extended to May 17 . 
However , restrictions have eased in some low risk areas that have not had new cases in three weeks . 
China : Mainland China was the first country in the world to go under lockdown . 
Now , with its daily cases in the low single digits , some cities are easing their restrictions and tourist favorites like Beijing 's Forbidden City are reopening . 
However , some limitations remain , such as daily visitor caps and health checks . 
More than 1 million people flocked to Shanghai 's attractions over the Labor Day weekend . 
Singapore : The city state plans to ease restrictions over the coming weeks , with business to resume more fully from June 1 . 
Employers and companies will be under strict requirements to reduce the risk of infection . 
Some residents will be allowed to exercise in public areas from May 5 and from May 12 select services will be allowed to resume , including food manufacturing , food delivery and takeaway , laundry services , and hairdressers . 
Australia : Restrictions have loosened in some states and the federal government is considering ending the nationwide lockdown early . 
In Queensland state , residents are allowed to go out for recreational activities like picnics or boating . 
While people are still expected to observe social distancing , residents flocked outdoors today , eager for fresh air after weeks at home . 
Malaysia : The country will allow the majority of businesses to reopen Monday . 
Those that involve close contact like movie theaters or nightclubs will remain closed . 
Malaysia has started rounding up undocumented immigrants to prevent the spread of coronavirus . 
Japan : The nationwide state of emergency was set to lift on May 6 , but Prime Minster Shinzo Abe said on Friday that the government plans to extend it for about a month -- a decision is expected on Monday . 
Japan 's cases have spiked in recent weeks and on Saturday it reported 289 new coronavirus cases and 34 deaths . 
New Zealand : Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said the country had " eliminated " the virus , but has urged people to be vigilant . 
Police say they have had more than 1,000 reports of people breaking the ban on mass gatherings as level 3 restrictions continue . 
