Infection rates in Greece continued to decline today with the public health organisation , EODY , reporting 904 new coronavirus cases , bringing the total number to 115,471 . 
But with most testing centres also closed at the weekend experts are warning this is not a time for citizens to let down their guard . 
Speaking to the Guardian , environmental health engineer professor Denis Sarigiannis said with transmissibility of the virus now facilitated by the colder weather it was clear stricter restrictions should have been initiated earlier . 
A surge in cases experienced in Greece during the pandemic ’s second wave has proved much harder to rein in than ever envisaged . 
" What we should have done was to take measures when the pandemic was still at much lower levels and cases were between 300 to 500 cases per day not when they had exceeded 2,000 , " he said this evening . 
" By that time of growth was exponential and we had already allowed dispersal across the country . " 
Based on simulations , Prof Sarigiannis and his team at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki have predicted a much slower decline in infections than health officials had hoped for . 
Opening up the economy before Christmas will , he says , not only be too soon but likely lead to a resurgence that will see cases once again rising to around 2,000 a day by the end of the first week of January . 
Greece has been under lockdown for the past month . 
Last week , the restrictions including a nationwide 9pm to 5am curfew , were extended through to 14 December , but against a backdrop of coronavirus fatigue the government is facing calls to ease the measures . 
On Monday , epidemiologists advising the centre right administration will meet to decide whether schools should be opened before Christmas . 
" It is premature to open up , " insisted Prof Sarigiannis , adding that while gathering outdoors posed little risk , coalescing indoors was a different matter . 
" We should have been using the lockdown to arm ourselves better against transmission . 
We should have taken more proactive measures to control contagion , such as disinfecting indoor spaces like malls , restaurants , hairdressers and super crowded schools especially at this time of the year . 
My biggest worry is that if we open up too soon , we might see cases back at 2,000 a day which will require lockdown all over again . " 
With December commerce so important to the country ’s finances , officials are eager to at least reintroduce retail before the end of the year . 
The Greek economy , only slowly recovering from years of crisis , is set to contract by around 10.5 % because of the pandemic this year . 
