As the United States reported more than 600,000 new Covid 19 cases in a week for the first time ever , US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) Director Dr . Robert Redfield tweeted on Wednesday , " Now is the time to develop a testing strategy to maximize our ability to identify the silent epidemic of asymptomatic COVID 19 infections . " 
Redfield ’s tweet described a weekend meeting with fellow White House Coronavirus Task Force member Dr . Deborah Birx and Utah Gov . 
Gary Herbert to discuss testing and mitigation efforts in Utah . 
On Tuesday , Utah was among 21 states that saw their peak seven day average for new daily cases . 
In a reply to CNN about Redfield ’s comment , Dr . Thomas Tsai of the Harvard Global Health Institute wrote in an email , " The time to develop a national testing strategy to identify asymptomatic COVID 19 infections was a few months ago , but that ship has sailed . 
Now is the time to implement a testing strategy focused on screening of asymptomatic individuals . " 
By the CDC ’s estimate , 40 % of people with Covid 19 are asymptomatic . 
The CDC came under fire in August after the agency ’s recommendation was changed to read : " If you have been in close contact ( within 6 feet ) of a person with a COVID 19 infection for at least 15 minutes but do not have symptoms , you do not necessarily need a test unless you are a vulnerable individual or your health care provider or State or local public health officials recommend you take one . " 
At the time , the change was heavily criticized by doctors and health agencies who worried the agency was influenced by the White House . 
In September , the agency ’s site was updated again to say that anyone who has been in close contact with someone who has Covid 19 should be tested , even if they do not have symptoms . 
" Due to the significance of asymptomatic and pre symptomatic transmission , this guidance further reinforces the need to test asymptomatic persons , including close contacts of a person with documented SARS Co V 2 infection , " it says , calling the change a clarification . 
