The numbers : Johns Hopkins University , which is tracking cases reported by the World Health Organization and additional sources , puts the total number of cases worldwide at more than 218,800 , with at least 8,800 deaths . 
China reports no new domestic cases : For the first time , the country where the coronavirus pandemic began has announced no new locally transmitted infections -- a pivotal moment in the battle to contain Covid 19 . 
All 34 new cases reported yesterday were imported from overseas . 
UK ramps up measures : From Friday , schools across the UK will close until further notice . 
Northern Ireland ’s schools will close starting Monday . 
Dozens of London Underground stations will close after the government advised to stop non essential social contact . 
An additional 10,000 military personnel will be placed " at a higher readiness " to support public services as part of a new coronavirus support force . 
Latest restrictions : Germany is extending its entry restrictions at six national borders to air and shipping traffic , the European Union has closed its external borders for 30 days , the UAE is banning incoming travelers and residency visa holders and Australia and New Zealand are both banning entry to foreign citizens and non residents . 
Situation in US : 80 % of coronavirus related deaths in the US occurred in adults aged 65 and older , according to a report from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . 
The US has at least 8,898 cases and 149 deaths . 
The government is preparing for the pandemic to last up to 18 months . 
Economy : The European Central Bank said it would spend $ 818 billion buying government debt and private securities to fight the coronavirus crash . 
South Korea is supplying 50 trillion won ( $ 39.1 billion ) in emergency funding to support small business . 
New cases : South Korea confirmed 152 new coronavirus cases yesterday -- a rise after a week of diminishing infection rates . 
Singapore confirmed 47 new coronavirus cases yesterday -- its largest single day increase in cases . 
Fiji confirmed the country 's first coronavirus case -- bad news for Pacific Island nations , which are some of the most remote and aid dependent in the world . 
Meanwhile , Russia and Mexico have reported their first coronavirus related deaths . 
