Sacramento County Sheriff Scott Jones , who has refused to enforce restrictions aimed at curbing an unprecedented surge in Covid 19 cases , has tested positive for the coronavirus , the sheriff ’s office announced . 
Jones took a test late last week following an exposure from another employee who had tested positive , and received his own positive result on Tuesday . 
His family is also in quarantine , the statement noted . 
The sheriff is one of " dozens of Sacramento Sheriff 's Office employees who … have contracted the virus , " the department said in a statement . 
It is unclear how and by whom these people were infected . 
" The sheriff is doing well and has almost no symptoms remaining , " Rodney Grassman , a spokesperson for the sheriff , told CNN . 
Grassman declined to offer additional details , saying " the sheriff is an elected public official so he wanted to share the diagnosis with the public but at the same time this is a medical condition and thus a private matter for the sheriff and his family . " 
Some background : The positive test result follows weeks of Jones publicly expressing his opposition to new Covid 19 restrictions from state and county officials meant to curb the spread of the virus . 
Last month , Jones said he would not enforce a curfew issued by Gov . 
Gavin Newsom prohibiting nonessential gatherings from 10 p.m . to 5 a.m . for the vast majority of the state ’s 40 million residents . 
" The Sacramento County Sheriff ’s Office will not be determining … compliance with , or enforcing compliance of , any health or emergency orders related to curfews , staying at home , Thanksgiving or other social gatherings inside or outside the home , " Jones said in a Nov . 19 news release . 
Jones also resisted earlier attempts by officials to halt the spread of the coronavirus , including the statewide mask mandate Newsom issued on June 18 . 
The following day the sheriff ’s department said , " it would be inappropriate for deputies to criminally enforce the Governor ’s mandate . " 
Instead , the department would operate on an " educational capacity . " 
