The Brazilian Health Ministry will not renew its contract to continue the country 's largest epidemiological Covid 19 study as the pandemic continues to take a toll across the country , according to the university heading up the research . 
EPICOVID19 BR is a serological study by Federal University of Pelotas ( UFPel ) to understand the " evolution of the prevalence of Infection by Covid 19 . " 
Preliminary results released by the university on July 2 suggested that almost 90 % of people infected with coronavirus are symptomatic , even when the symptoms are mild . 
The research also found that loss of smell and taste are symptoms of Covid 19 , and that children can be infected as much as adults . 
The EPICOVID19 BR study also suggests that the number of people infected with coronavirus in Brazil is 6.5 times higher than the official government figure . 
It is one of the largest Covid 19 studies of its kind in the world , based on the number of test participants , according to Pedro Hallal , an epidemiologist and dean of UFPel . 
More than 90,000 people in each of Brazil ’s 26 states and the Federal District of Brasilia have been tested in three stages of research to map the pandemic so far , at a cost of about $ 3 million , said Hallal . 
Until now , the research was funded by Brazil ’s Ministry of Health . 
" When we presented the results of the last phase of the study at the beginning of July , we were told the government would like to continue it . 
But , since then , the ministry is totally silent , " Hallal said . 
In a news conference on Tuesday , Interim Health Minister Eduardo Pazuello said the study was very good , but unable to deliver a national view of the pandemic . 
" Brazil is very heterogeneous , and we would need individualized studies in each region of the country . 
That is what we are analyzing , " he said . 
Hallal explained it ’s important to continue the study because Brazil is still in the middle of the pandemic . 
With the apparent lack of continued funding from the federal government , the university is looking for other potential backers , and is currently in negotiations with one entity , according to Hallal . 
