Hubei , the Chinese province at the center of the novel coronavirus outbreak , announced 349 new cases today , the lowest daily number of infections officially recorded by China in weeks . 
Chinese state media is adopting a positive stance on the fall in new infections today , but it remains too early to predict the end of the current outbreak , Dr . Mike Ryan , World Health Organization executive director of health emergencies program , said during a news conference on Wednesday . 
The news of a fall in infections in China comes amid a spikes in cases in other Asian countries , notably South Korea , Singapore and Japan . 
Here 's the latest : Infections drop in virus epicenter : Confirmed cases in mainland China increased by 394 , according to the country 's National Health Commission . 
Only 45 of those new cases were outside of Hubei , according to the NHC 's official figures . 
The total number of confirmed cases in mainland China is now 74,576 , bringing the global total to 75,674 . 
Death toll rises : The number of people killed by the virus continues to rise , with 114 more deaths announced in mainland China today . 
In total , the global death toll is now 2,126 . 
South Korea infections jump : There are now 82 cases of the deadly coronavirus in South Korea , the government reported today , after a jump of 31 additional cases overnight . 
Many of the new infections went to the same church as a previous confirmed patient . 
Diamond Princess passengers departing : Large numbers of passengers are due to leave their cruise ship today after two weeks in quarantine on board . 
Cruise goers from Canada and Israel will be among those allowed off Thursday . 
Japan 's Ministry of Health , Labour and Welfare has given up to 500 passengers permission to leave , a Princess Cruises spokesperson told CNN . 
A total of 624 cases of the coronavirus have been found on board the ship so far . 
Quarantine criticism dismissed : Japan 's health ministry has defended its quarantine of the Diamond Princess , saying it is repeatedly in contact with " experts from university hospitals and other institutions " on how to handle the cruise ship . 
It came after a viral You Tube video made by Professor Kentaro Iwata criticized the government 's handling of the situation , implying the virus was out of control onboard . 
Scientists slam conspiracy theories : A group of scientists from around the world have come together to denounce rumors that the coronavirus originated in a Chinese laboratory , rather than naturally in animals . 
" ( We ) overwhelmingly conclude that this coronavirus originated in wildlife , as have so many other emerging pathogens , " 27 study authors said in a statement published Wednesday in medical journal The Lancet . 
