Iran ’s Armed Forces will start clearing public spaces nationwide as part of a scaled up effort to halt the spread of coronavirus in the country , according to state run Press TV . 
Most shops , streets and roads will be closed within a period of 24 hours that began on Friday , Chairman of the Chiefs of Staff of the Iranian Armed Forces Major General Mohammad Baqeri said Friday , as quoted by Press TV . 
Only essential shops and offices , like grocery stores , pharmacies and banks will remain open with minimal staff . 
He said : He added that law enforcement and security committees along with the Interior Ministry and provincial governors will be clearing shops , streets and roads . 
The suspected cases will be transferred to medical centers , Baqeri said , adding that the Iranian Armed Forces would establish up to 1,000 treatment units for coronavirus patients . 
He also urged the Iranian people to comply with the Health Ministry safety guidelines in order to stop the outbreak in a timely manner . 
Coronavirus has so far killed 514 people and infected over 11,300 in Iran . 
On Friday , Iran ’s Foreign Minister Javad Zarif submitted a letter to UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres urging the international community to disregard the " inhumane " sanctions imposed by the US . 
" I urge the world body—and member states—to disregard inhuman US sanctions on my country . 
And insist that they be lifted , " Zarif said on his official Twitter account . 
" As the # COVID19 ravages Iran , we should recognize that viruses do not discriminate . 
To fight them , neither should humans . " 
Also on Friday , Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Abbas Mousavi said an apparent offer from US President Donald Trump to help Iran fight the virus was " hypocritical " and " repulsive , " according to Press TV . 
" Instead of hypocritical displays of compassion and repulsive bragging , you should end your economic and medical terrorism so that medicine and medical supplies can reach medical staff and the Iranian people , " Mousavi said , adding that Washington should care for its own people amid the pandemic . 
Hezbollah ’s Chief Hassan Nasrallah also blasted Trump and his administration on Friday for their transparency in keeping the public informed , according to Press TV . 
" We are in the middle of a battle that resembles a world war , " and Trump and his team have been " the worst liars " when it comes to fighting the virus , Nasrallah said . 
