Starmer calls for " national action plan " for vaccine distribution The Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has called on Boris Johnson to enact a " comprehensive national action plan " for distributing the expected Covid vaccine . 
In a letter to the prime minister , Starmer writes : " The challenge facing the country now is not just how we get control of the virus , but how we get ready for the vaccine . 
We are world leaders in vaccines , and I believe we should be aiming for a world class programme for rolling it out . 
" However , this will be a mammoth logistical operation , probably larger than we have seen since the second world war . 
If we are to get it right , then we must have a clear plan in place now . 
" It should be a plan that harnesses all of the talents of the British people : our businesses , nurses , doctors , scientists and public servants . " 
Starmer continues to say that the government should " consider supporting councils and local NHS services to refurbish community assets , such as town halls or sport centres , into local vaccine clinics " as part of the new programme . 
He emphasises that the action plan must harness the talents of the British public for the new national vaccine programme . 
Following the announcement of a viable vaccine , the health secretary , Matt Hancock , has said that UK residents are likely to be among the first in the world to receive a jab . 
Pfizer and Bio NTech have announced that preliminary findings show that their vaccine can prevent more than 90 % of people from contracting the virus . 
The interim recommendations that determine who gets the vaccine once available are set up in terms of vulnerability . 
Currently , the list prioritises older adults in care homes and care workers first , followed by all those aged 80 and over , and health and social care workers . 
Next in line are the over 75s , then the over 70s , and so on down the age groups , as more vaccine shots become available . 
But , Starmer has said that Labour is also calling for a plan into the interim criteria . 
Saying they want a system that guarantees " equitable access to the vaccine no matter where you live " . 
A spokesperson for the Department of Health and Social Care told the Guardian : " The rollout of a Covid 19 vaccine will be delivered by the NHS which has vast experience delivering widespread vaccination programmes , and an enormous amount of planning has taken place to ensure our health service stands ready to deploy . 
" This includes putting in place logistical expertise , transport , PPE and an expanded workforce to ensure we can deploy vaccines rapidly once they have met robust standards on safety and effectiveness and been approved by the medicines regulator . 
We have also provided GP practices with an additional £ 150m to support them over the coming months . 
" We will follow independent advice from the Joint Committee on Vaccines and Immunisations on which groups should be prioritised to receive a vaccine , and will publish further details on our deployment plans in due course . " 
Starmer ’s letter comes ahead of the visit to Oxford vaccine labs on Monday with the shadow chancellor , Anneliese Dodds . 
