Just two weeks of social distancing policies cut the spread of coronavirus by 65 % globally , preventing more than 1.5 million new cases , Texas researchers estimated Thursday . 
The few states and countries that resisted social distancing saw almost no reduction in spread , the team at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center said . 
More details : The team set out to see what happened when states enacted social distancing or lockdown policies at the start of the coronavirus pandemic . 
The team compared Nebraska and Idaho , two similar states . 
Idaho had a social distancing policy , while Nebraska did not . 
South Dakota , whose governor also resisted a statewide policy , also saw little to no reduction in cases . 
Wyoming lacked a social distancing policy and the sparsely populated state came in fifteenth from the bottom out of 50 states in terms of reducing coronavirus spread . 
But the study was lacking in data , the researchers said . 
" While analysis of US states indicated that social distancing policies reduced Covid 19 spread rates proportional to associated reductions in mobility , only having three states without social distancing policies reduces the power of any observation , " they wrote . 
" To address this , we next expanded our model to the global level . " 
They looked at data from 134 different countries . 
" Globally , we find that social distancing policies significantly reduced the Covid 19 spread rate , with resulting in an estimated 65 % reduction in new Covid 19 cases over a two week time period , " the researchers wrote . 
In 46 countries , the policies had a strong effect , preventing an estimated 1.57 million cases of Covid 19 over a two week period . 
That represents a 65 % reduction in new cases , they said . 
Social distancing is not necessarily the only way to reduce spread , they noted . 
" For instance , South Korea has not enacted a social distancing program but instead utilized a powerful contact tracing approach to control the spread of Covid 19 , " they wrote . 
Watch : 
