The updated advice from the Foreign Office warning all British nationals to leave China has left many Britons wondering what to do . 
With many holding down jobs and relationships , keeping pets or even raising children in the country , it is not simple to up sticks and leave . 
Robin Mitchell , a 38 year old lecturer in Xiamen , Fujian province , has a six year old daughter with his Chinese partner . 
He said : I have just read that the Foreign Office has advised us Brits to leave China , and that Professor Head thinks this move will be reassuring . 
I ’d just like to assure the professor that this news is about as far from reassuring as possible . 
For most expats , leaving China is not like cutting a holiday short . 
We have jobs , houses , pets and ( most importantly of all ) family here . 
I , and presumably hundreds or possibly thousands like me , have a child with a Chinese partner , which complicates matters even further as visa applications take months . 
Since the outbreak the consulate has not made any attempt to contact any expat I know , and appears to have completely jumped ship ( if media reports are to be believed ) . 
If Dominic Raab is serious about our safety as his priority , he could start by assuring us that Chinese parents of British nationals will be allowed to enter the UK if we follow his advice and leave China . 
Another Briton , a recent graduate who is working as an English teacher in Chengdu , and who preferred not to be named , called the Foreign Office advice an " unwelcome intervention " . 
He pointed out that , alongside financial responsibilities such as continuing to pay rent for their Chinese homes , some British nationals simply ca not afford a ticket out . 
He said : The recent advice from the government - for UK nationals to leave China as soon as we are able - has come at an already tense time for many of us in Chengdu . 
As you will already know , the Chinese authorities have prolonged the spring festival until the 10th February , however , my company has put in place systems whereby we can , or rather have to , work from home . 
This mainly involves correcting students ’ oral presentations or reading practice on the Chinese messaging app We Chat . 
At the same time , many foreign teachers have chosen to take unpaid leave in order to return home . 
The company has not yet made it clear to us when classes will resume in earnest ( though early March has made its way through the rumour mill ) and this has left many of us in a state of limbo . 
Do we follow the precedent set by others , potentially leaving China for an uncertain length of time , which might in some way jeopardize our contracts , or do we hold out for further information from the company or the Chinese authorities , by which time it might be even more difficult to leave . 
The advice from the UK government is therefore somewhat of an unwelcome intervention as no new information on the virus has been provided . 
It also ignores the fact that many of us in China have financial responsibilities , paying rent being chief amongst them , that we cannot simply ignore or afford to neglect . 
This is beside the fact that some of us simply ca not afford the price of a flight home at the moment . 
We ’re in a bind with no new information from either the Chinese or British governments with regards to the severity or spread of the virus and a lack of transparency from our company as to the future conditions of our employment . 
Many staff are understandably scared of the recent outbreak and what it might mean for our health but I would say that concerns regarding our employment are of equal if not greater immediate importance and unfortunately the government ’s advice offers no easy solution pertaining to this issue . 
