During an ABC interview Tuesday , Dr . Robert Redfield , the director of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , admitted that there have been problems with the federal response to Covid 19 . 
The CDC director discussed his initial response to news of something mysterious happening in central China . 
He said he got a phone call on New Year 's Eve last year alerting him to an incident involving a respiratory condition in Wuhan and he told ABC he knew it was serious . 
He said he wrote the first situation report on the incident the very next day . 
" We felt that this had potential to be a very serious situation that had national security implications , " he said . 
The CDC was ready to send in a team of scientists within a week , but the Chinese government refused to let them in , Redfield said , something he has said before and pointed to as a reason the US got a later start in identifying the dangerous virus and taking action . 
He also said he 's optimistic that the country can get the upper hand in the battle against the coronavirus . 
" I wish now we would come together and recognize and see the possibility that we can beat this pandemic , " he said . 
Europe 's Covid 19 threat : In that same interview , Redfield admitted for the first time that the US was slow in recognizing the coronavirus threat from Europe . 
" The introduction from Europe happened before we realized what was happening , " Redfield said . 
" By the time we realized ( the ) Europe threat and shut down travel to Europe , there was probably already two or three weeks of 60,000 people coming back every day from Europe , " he added . 
" That 's where the large seeding came in the Unites States . " 
The US restricted travel from China on February 2 and from Europe on March 13 , but by March 8 , Covid 19 was already circulating among the community in New York City and , by March 15 , community transmission of the virus was already widespread , a recent analysis from the CDC found . 
By the time the Trump administration banned travelers from Europe , the virus was already spreading in New York City , according to the report . 
Testing was also limited at the start of the epidemic there , allowing people with undetected cases to spread the virus . 
