Europe is at a " decisive " point in dealing with its second wave of Covid 19 infections , the European Union 's Health Commissioner warned , adding the actions that people take now will determine the severity of restrictions needed in the coming months . 
" Today we 're here to call on everyone to act decisively . 
It might be our last chance to prevent a repeat of last spring , " Commissioner Stella Kyriakides said at a news conference Thursday . 
" Moreover , autumn and winter are the time of the year for more respiratory illnesses including seasonal influenza . " 
Prevent severe lockdowns : Kyriakides said people should not lower their guard because " the crisis is not behind us , " and cautioned against a situation where governments are forced to impose more severe lockdowns . 
" ( Such lockdowns ) will be detrimental -- detrimental to our mental health , detrimental to our economies , detrimental to the well being and education of our children , detrimental to our working and daily lives . " 
Mental health risk : This comes as the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control ( ECDC ) said it ’s concerned by the increase in cases across the continent , but also warns that re imposing lockdown rules is likely to affect people ’s mental health . 
Changing quarantine rules : The ECDC also indicated there is scope for changing the quarantine rules for those who are exposed to the virus -- by potentially reducing the 14 day quarantine to 10 days after exposure if a person returns a negative test at that point . 
Pandemic is not uniform : While there has been an increase in cases throughout Europe , the ECDC says the pandemic is not having the same affect in all countries . 
" However , in a number of other countries , the upsurge coincides with high or increasing notification rates in older individuals and , consequently , an increased proportion of hospitalized and severe cases . " 
Austria bans " after ski " parties : The Austrian ski season will go ahead but après ski parties will be banned , the country ’s Chancellor Sebastian Kurz says . 
Pushback against new French restrictions : Benoît Payan , the deputy mayor of Marseille , has asked for a " 10 day delay " to tough restrictions the French government will impose from Monday , following a surge in cases there . 
Payan said France 's second largest city had not been adequately consulted or warned about the new measures , leading to " incomprehension " and " anger " from local officials . 
Renaud Muselier , president of the regional council of Provence Alpes Cote d 'Azur , which includes Marseille , referred to the closures as a " collective punishment " in a statement published on Twitter . 
