Contrary to his predictions , President Trump wo not have a coronavirus vaccine ready by Election Day , vaccine experts tell CNN after reviewing data from Moderna , the first company to begin Phase 3 clinical trials of a coronavirus vaccine in the United States . 
Last week President Trump said he was " optimistic " a vaccine would be ready around Election Day on November 3 . 
" I believe we 'll have the vaccine before the end of the year , certainly , but around that date , yes . 
I think so , " Trump said Thursday . 
CNN obtained part of an email Moderna sent on Friday to the principal investigators of its vaccine trials . 
It says 4,536 study subjects have enrolled in the trials . 
The trial started on July 27 , and intends to enroll 30,000 study subjects . 
The company has said it is " on track to complete enrollment in September . " 
Moderna wo not make that 30,000 in September if they continue at the rate of the first two weeks , but it ’s likely the speed of enrollment will ramp up , since as of Friday only 54 of the study 's 89 sites were operating , according to the company 's email to its researchers . 
Moderna 's numbers did increase significantly from the first week of the trial to the second week . 
Even if Moderna does reach its goal of full enrollment during the month of September , the company still wo not have a vaccine on the market by Election Day , infectious disease experts say . 
After Moderna enrolls its subjects and gives them their first shot , they then have to wait 28 days before giving them a second shot . 
That means participants enrolled at the end of September wo not be getting their second injections until the end of October . 
Offit said they then have to wait two weeks for the vaccine to become fully effective . 
" That takes you past Election Day , " Offit said . 
After that , the researchers have to wait and see who gets sick with Covid 19 and who does not . 
Half the study participants are receiving the real vaccine , and half get a placebo , or a shot that does nothing . 
Neither the participants nor the doctors giving the vaccines know who got which injections . 
Both Offit and Hotez predict there will be results from the Moderna study in the first quarter of 2021 at the earliest . 
Read more : 
