The Trump administration is making new inroads into the operations of the US Postal Service , raising fears that the agency is degrading services ahead of a surge of votes being cast through the mail in the November election . 
As President Trump has launched a relentless attack on vote by mail elections , Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin has inserted himself into the Postal Service 's finances and a major Trump donor was selected to lead the USPS — steps critics warn have opened up the independent government agency to undue political influence . 
New Postmaster General Louis De Joy , who took over in June , is under pressure to reverse dramatic cost cutting measures and prepare the Postal Service for a flood of mail in ballots this fall . 
Last week , Mnuchin struck a loan deal with the Postal Service giving him access to details of its 10 biggest service contracts , likely including Amazon — a move that could give the administration new ammunition to push the USPS to agree to one of Trump 's pet projects , raising its shipping prices . 
And in another sign of Mnuchin 's involvement in the Postal Service 's dealings , the Treasury secretary received briefings from the USPS Board of Governors to discuss the appointment of De Joy as postmaster general earlier this year , a source familiar with the matter told CNN , an irregular arrangement that has not happened in past appointments . 
In heated discussions with De Joy on Wednesday , Democrats demanded that the Postal Service repeal cutbacks that have slowed the mail already , months before the November elections . 
Minority Leader Chuck Schumer told CNN on Thursday that Democrats called on De Joy " to pull back on these cutbacks on overtime and employees , so all the mail can be delivered on time on Election Day . " 
" We pushed it . 
It 's gotta be 100 % , not 94 % , not 97 % , " Schumer said , adding : " We do not fully trust them — with everything Trump has said about the Post Office -- and they 're Trump appointees . " 
In a letter to De Joy on Thursday , Schumer and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said the postmaster general had confirmed the cutbacks in their Wednesday meeting , and they again called on him to reverse them . 
Some background : The moves that have unfolded just six weeks into De Joy 's tenure have cast new doubts about the ability of the Postal Service to handle what is shaping up to be a major increase in mail in voting in November as the country grapples with the Covid 19 pandemic . 
Democrats charge that the service cuts smack of political influence when they come at the same time that Trump is falsely claiming mail in voting will result in massive fraud . 
Read more here . 
