The cost of personal protective equipment is skyrocketing – more than 1,000 % in some cases – as the coronavirus pandemic continues . 
The federal government 's Strategic National Stockpile has nearly emptied and states have been left to find PPE supplies on their own . 
The surge in demand has left importers , suppliers and purchasers scrambling . 
And price gouging has exacerbated the problem . 
" You have a lot of that going on and that 's not really a good thing . ( The competition ) really raises prices further . 
Now these companies have a right to charge more money and guess who 's going to pay the higher price ? " he added . 
Einhorn buys his supply from China , where he built relationships with manufacturers – but he says that does not matter anymore with the novel coronavirus . 
" It does not function that way , " he said . 
" Anyone who wants to come in , places a bid . 
The royalty and relationships that existed for so many years , do not exist . 
What matters is the almighty dollar to these people . " 
The cost of PPE supplies has gone up more than 1,000 % , according to a report published last week by the Society for Healthcare Organization Procurement Professional , a new nonprofit organization , founded by two companies that provide consulting , including on purchasing , to nursing homes . 
These numbers put a clearer picture of the cost of what states have been complaining vocally about for weeks – that the lack of central control has severely driven up the price . 
The data was compiled by requesting cost information from more than 4,000 of the two companies ' clients , which are skilled nursing facilities and assisted living centers . 
More on this : The cost of N95 masks went up from $ 0.38 to $ 5.75 each ( 1,513 % increase ) , the cost of vinyl exam gloves went from $ 0.02 to $ 0.06 ( 300 % increase ) ; and the cost of isolation gowns went from $ 0.25 to $ 5.00 ( 2000 % increase ) , according to the report . 
Reusable face shields that once went for $ 0.50 now are $ 4 , up 900 % , the report states . 
