Public health officials have called on people to stay six feet apart to slow the spread of coronavirus through so called respiratory droplets . 
But three experts are warning that six feet may not be enough – and they say the world needs to take airborne transmission of the virus seriously . 
In a commentary published in the journal Science , the experts called for " regular , widespread testing " to find asymptomatic cases , and they pointed to places where mask wearing is universal and the virus has been controlled , like Hong Kong and Taiwan . 
World Health Organization guidance might not be enough in all situations , they said . 
" Evidence suggests that ( the novel coronavirus ) is silently spreading in aerosols exhaled by highly contagious infected individuals with no symptoms , " wrote Chia Wang of National Sun Yat sen University in Taiwan and Kimberly Prather and Dr . Robert Schooley of the University of California , San Diego . 
The three experts , who are specialists in chemistry and infectious diseases , said aerosols from breathing and speaking " can accumulate , remain infectious in indoor air for hours , and be easily inhaled deep into the lungs . " 
That makes wearing masks all the more essential , they said , even when people are keeping their distance . 
More on this : The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has focused on so called respiratory droplets produced when a person coughs or sneezes . 
The droplets do not linger in the air for long , but the CDC says they " can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs . " 
Spread is more likely when people are in close contact with one another , or " within about 6 feet , " the CDC says . 
That ’s because respiratory droplets are relatively large and fall to the ground – unlike aerosols , which are smaller and more likely to stay in the air longer . 
Despite the focus on droplets from US health officials and others , the experts said " a large proportion of the spread of coronavirus disease 2019 ( Covid 19 ) appears to be occurring through airborne transmission of aerosols produced by asymptomatic individuals during breathing and speaking . " 
While more research is needed , they called for robust testing schemes and said people need to mask up . 
" For society to resume , measures designed to reduce aerosol transmission must be implemented , including universal masking and regular , widespread testing to identify and isolate infected asymptomatic individuals , " they said . 
