UK prime minister Boris Johnson has announced new restrictions amounting effectively to a month long national lockdown for England . 
The new rules are to come into effect at midnight on Thursday 5 November and will stay in place until 2 December , when the government will " seek to ease restrictions " , Johnson said . 
Restrictions will be similar to those introduced at the start of the pandemic in March , however this time courts , schools , and universities will remain open . 
All pubs and restaurants have to close , though takeaways and deliveries will be permitted . 
All non essential retail is to close , and the mixing of people inside homes will be forbidden , except for childcare reasons and other forms of vital support . 
Manufacturing and construction will be encouraged to keep going . 
Travel within the UK will be discouraged , except for work . 
Outbound international travel as well as overnight stays away from home will be banned , except for work . 
Outdoor exercise and recreation will be encouraged . 
Private prayer will continue in places of worship , but not services , while funerals will be limited to close family members only The new regulations will be published on Monday , and MPs will vote on them on Wednesday . 
The new measures come as the Office for National Statistics estimates that 568,100 people in England were infected with coronavirus in the week to 23 October . 
UK chief scientific adviser Sir Patrick Vallance said deaths in England over the winter could be twice as high or more than during the first wave . 
The chief medical officer for England , Chris Whitty , said : " We now have around 50,000 new cases a day , and that is rising . 
" If we do nothing , the inevitable result will means these numbers will go up and they will eventually exceed the peak that we saw in spring of this year . " 
" I ’m afraid no responsible prime minister can ignore the message of these figures , " Johnson said . 
" There is no alternative . " 
Just at the end of July , Johnson had ruled out a second national lockdown . 
