The total number of Covid 19 infections may be six to 24 times greater than reported , according to a survey of blood samples in six areas across the country conducted by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . 
The survey looked for Covid 19 antibodies in blood samples from commercial laboratories – which were collected for reasons unrelated to Covid 19 , between March 23 and May 3 – in Connecticut , South Florida , the New York City metro area , Missouri , Utah and western Washington State . 
In Connecticut , the survey estimated that 5 % of people had antibodies to Covid 19 between April 26 and May 3 , which meant there were six times more cases than reported . 
In the New York City metro area , that number was 7 % of people around late March – 12 times higher than the number of cases reported then . 
And the survey estimates that 2.65 % of Missourians had antibodies in late April . 
In that case , there were nearly 162,000 cases by April 26 in the state – 24 times higher than the 6,800 reported at the time . 
CDC Director Dr . Robert Redfield hinted at preliminary results on Thursday when he told reporters , " The estimates that we have right now … is that 's about 10 times more people have antibody . " 
Redfield said that earlier testing efforts may have missed mild and asymptomatic cases , instead focusing on people who were ill in hospitals or nursing homes . 
Moving forward : The seroprevalence survey is ongoing , and the CDC says it plans to test about 1,800 samples every three to four weeks from these areas , in addition to four additional states : California , Louisiana , Minnesota and Pennsylvania . 
The agency says these samples may not be representative of the total populations in these areas , and the survey did not look at risk factors among those sampled – such as a person 's occupation or underlying health conditions . 
The survey suggests that while the estimated number of infections may be much greater than official numbers , the vast majority of people have not been infected with the virus . 
The jury is still out when it comes to what antibodies mean for immunity to this virus . 
" Other studies are planned to learn more about SARS COV 2 antibodies , including how long they last , whether or not they provide protection against getting infected again , and if you get infected again , whether or not they can make that illness milder , " the agency said . 
The CDC adjusted its estimates to account for false positive and false negative results , which may occur frequently in some areas , and cautions against interpreting results on an individual basis for this reason . 
