Friday was the deadline for states to file their plans for distributing any coronavirus vaccine , but they still do not have the needed federal money to help them do it , state health officials said Monday . 
The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention asked states to file their plans by last week . 
" As it stands now , we do not have any capability to fund the imminent implementation of the plan , " James Blumenstock , senior vice president for pandemic response and recovery at the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials ( ASTHO ) , told reporters on Monday . 
He said the CDC has distributed $ 200 million to states for preparedness and planning . 
" That certainly would not be sufficient at all for a campaign of this magnitude and duration that we are thinking of , " Blumenstock said . 
ASTHO has asked Congress for $ 8.4 billion to help states distribute and administer vaccines to people , once they became available . 
" Even if the money was appropriated today , it would take time for those funds to reach the jurisdictions that in turn would need it , " Blumenstock said . 
He compared the current response to the rollout of vaccines for the H1N1 swine flu pandemic in 2009 . 
What ’s been provided now compared to what was provided then seems " woefully inadequate , " he said . 
Dr . Nirav Shah , director of Maine ’s Center for Disease Control and Prevention , said his state and likely others could probably get started vaccinating frontline health care workers once a vaccine became available , because they will be in easy to reach places such as hospitals and clinics . 
What will be more difficult , he said , will be reaching the people designated as high risk of severe complications for coronavirus who are not frontline medical and emergency workers , such as people with underlying health conditions . 
States will face considerable difficulties distributing coronavirus vaccines , especially as some require special ultra cold handling conditions . 
Record keeping will also be complicated because some vaccines will require two doses . 
The vaccines made by different companies have very different formulations , so if more than one is authorized , clinics will have to keep careful note of which vaccines patients get so they get a second dose of the same brand of vaccine . 
