There has been a 90 % increase in the number of Covid 19 cases among US children over the past four weeks , according to a report published Monday by the American Academy of Pediatrics and the Children ’s Hospital Association . 
According to this new report , expected to be updated weekly , there were 179,990 new Covid 19 cases among US children between July 9 and August 6 . 
The data comes from case numbers provided by state health departments of 49 states , New York City , the District of Columbia , Puerto Rico and Guam . 
Some of the increase may be due to more testing , AAP said . 
Early in the pandemic , testing was reserved for the sickest . 
A broader number of tests may be identifying children that have fewer or milder symptoms than those who were tested earlier in the pandemic . 
Children make up just over 9 % of the total cases in states that report cases by age , according to the report . 
At least 380,174 total child Covid 19 cases had been reported as of August 6 . 
It still appears that severe symptoms are rare among children with Covid 19 infections . 
Children were between 0.5 % and 5.3 % of total hospitalizations , according to data from the states that record that information . 
Children were 0 % to 0.4 % of all Covid 19 deaths . 
Nineteen states have reported no child deaths . 
In states that tracked the details , 0 % to 0.5 % of all child Covid 19 cases resulted in death . 
The AAP called for an effective testing strategy so that communities can make the right choice about opening schools . 
" In areas with rapid community spread , it ’s likely that more children will also be infected , and these data show that , " AAP President Dr . Sally Goza said in the news release . 
" As a pediatrician , I urge people to wear cloth face coverings and be diligent in social distancing and hand washing . 
It is up to us to make the difference , community by community . " 
The World Health Organization said last week that the pandemic is starting to move into the younger population globally , while most cases , by far , are among people ages 25 to 64 . 
CNN Chief Medical Correspondent Dr . Sanjay Gupta answered viewers ' questions on this worrying statistic : 
