Global coronavirus cases rose by more than 400,000 for the first time late on Friday , a record one day increase as much of Europe enacts new restrictions to curb the outbreak . 
Europe , which successfully damped down the first surge of infections , has emerged as the new coronavirus epicentre in recent weeks and is reporting on average 140,000 cases a day over the past week . 
As a region , Europe is reporting more daily cases than India , Brazil and the US combined . 
Of every 100 infections reported around the world , 34 were from European countries , according to a Reuters analysis . 
The region is currently reporting a million new infections about every nine days and has reported more than 6.3 million cases since the pandemic began . 
Major European countries - the UK , France , Russia , the Netherlands and Spain - accounted for about half of Europe ’s new cases in the week to 18 October . 
France is reporting the highest seven day average of new cases in Europe with 19,425 infections per day followed by the United Kingdom , Russia , Spain and the Netherlands in the list of worst affected European countries . 
Several European countries are closing schools , cancelling elective surgeries and enlisting student medics as the authorities face a Covid 19 resurgence . 
Russia is moving students to online learning and Northern Ireland is closing schools for two weeks and restaurants for four . 
In Spain , authorities in Catalonia ordered bars and restaurants to close for 15 days and limited the numbers of people allowed in shops . 
The Czech Republic has also shifted schools to distance learning and plans to call up thousands of medical students . 
Hospitals are cutting non urgent medical procedures to free up beds . 
Polish health officials have warned the country is on the brink of a disaster as a record 6,526 new coronavirus infections and 116 deaths were reported this week . 
Poland is ramping up training for nurses and considering creating military field hospitals . 
Latin America is the worst affected region with about 27 % of total Covid 19 cases followed by Asia , North America and Europe . 
India is reporting fewer cases this month compared with September , with 69,000 cases per day . 
The numbers have fallen by more than 20,400 over the last three weeks , down 22 % from its previous peak . 
India reported 55,342 cases on 13 October , its lowest daily increase since 18 August . 
In the US , which has the largest total number of cases and deaths in the world , new infections are edging higher along with the most hospitalised Covid 19 patients since early September . 
