As countries continue to take strict emergency measures to stop the spread of the novel coronavirus , thousands of people are stranded at sea on cruise ships with nowhere to dock . 
Two ships are affected in Asia , but they are in very different situations . 
The Diamond Princess has been quarantined in Japan 's Yokohama since February 4 , with the number of coronavirus cases onboard increasing daily . 
The Westerdam was refused port by authorities in four countries -- despite having no coronavirus cases -- before Cambodia finally allowed the ship to dock and agreed to let its passengers disembark . 
Here 's the latest on the two ships : The Westerdam : Operated by Holland America Line , the Westerdam has 1,455 guests , including 650 Americans , and 802 crew members onboard . 
It had originally departed Singapore on January 16 . 
The Westerdam was on a 14 day cruise that departed Hong Kong on February 1 . 
The cruise was scheduled to end its itinerary in Yokohama , Japan , on February 15 , but was refused entry at any Japanese port despite having no confirmed cases of the coronavirus onboard . 
It was also denied entry to the Philippines , Taiwan and Thailand as countries closed their ports to cruise ships over coronavirus fears . 
Passenger Christina Kerby told CNN that life continued as normal onboard , with cruise directors providing entertainment for passengers while at sea . 
On Thursday , the Westerdam docked in Cambodia 's Sihanoukville after a deal was reached with Cambodia authorities . 
Guests will disembark and transfer via charter flights to Phnom Penh for forward travel home . 
The Diamond Princess : Operated by Princess Cruises , the Diamond Princess has 2,666 guests and 1,045 crew . 
It has been docked in Japan 's Yokohama port since February 4 after dozens of people became infected with the virus . 
So far at least 219 people ( including five crew members ) have tested positive for the coronavirus onboard after 44 more people were confirmed on Thursday . 
It 's the largest outbreak outside of mainland China . 
Those who have tested positive are taken off the ship to hospitals , but passengers onboard must stay in a 14 day quarantine . 
The quarantine is expected to end on February 19 . 
Passengers are confined to their rooms and allowed on deck for a limited time . 
Crew members continue to work and one worker told CNN she fears the crew are at greater risk of being exposed to the outbreak because they are not being quarantined in the same way as the passengers . 
Captain Stefano Ravera said everyone over the age of 80 has now been tested for the novel coronavirus . 
Some passengers will be allowed to disembark the ship early , including those aged 80 years or over with a chronic medical condition , those 80 years or over staying in an inside cabin ( with no balcony ) , and those under 80 who have been given a test for any other reason . 
Passengers who do disembark early will have to remain in government housing facilities until February 19 . 
