The Chinese province at the center of the novel coronavirus outbreak reported a record spike in deaths Thursday , bringing the total number to more than 1,300 infections globally . 
Hubei announced an additional 242 deaths and 14,840 cases of the virus as of Thursday morning , the largest single day rise since the epidemic began and almost 10 times the number of cases confirmed the previous day . 
Here 's what to know : The numbers : The novel coronavirus has killed more than 1,350 people and infected over 60,000 people worldwide . 
The vast majority of cases are in mainland China . 
Widening definition : Chinese officials have broadened their definition of what constitutes a confirmed case of the coronavirus . 
The tweak has led to a jump in cases in China but the World Health Organization ( WHO ) says it 's " normal during the course of an outbreak to adapt the case definition . " 
Cruise ship crisis : The Westerdam cruise ship that was turned away from four different ports has been allowed to dock in Cambodia 's Sihanoukville . 
Passengers will be able to disembark and transfer via charter flights to Phnom Penh for forward travel home . 
Meanwhile , 44 people tested positive for the coronavirus aboard the Diamond Princess cruise ship docked in Japan 's Yokohama . 
This bring the total number of cases on the ship to 219 , including one Japanese quarantine officer -- the largest outbreak of the virus outside of mainland China . 
More lockdowns : Vietnam has put an entire commune on lockdown to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus after reporting the country 's 16th confirmed case . 
Faulty test kits : The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said some of the coronavirus test kits shipped to labs across the US are not working as they should , and the agency is remanufacturing a reagent used in the kits . 
Heads roll in China : The Communist Party has embarked on a major shakeup of provincial leadership in China . 
The Communist Party chiefs of both Wuhan and Hubei province are being replaced as the country grapples with the outbreak . 
Shanghai Fashion Week postponed : More events are being cancelled or postponed due to the virus . 
Set to take place from March 26 to April 2 , Shanghai Fashion Week , will now be postponed . 2020 Tokyo Olympics : Still on the agenda , however , is the Tokyo 2020 Olympics . 
Officials are adamant the Games will go ahead this summer . 
