A Taiwanese Ph D student said she feels discriminated against after London Airbnb hosts canceled her booking at the last minute , citing fears about coronavirus . 
Yale University student Louise Hsin Yuan Peng , who traveled from Taiwan to London earlier this month to conduct research for three months , received a cancellation message from the hosts of her long term booking that said they were concerned about the virus outbreak and had to " err on the side of caution . " 
She received the cancellation message when she was about to arrive , after already messaging the hosts when she landed at the airport in London and taking a train to the city center . 
The 31 year old student has not traveled near virus affected areas and has not been to mainland China in years . 
" I understand that people are probably freaking out because of the outbreak , " she said . 
" But I feel that they should have asked about my travel history and what I do or if I had interactions with people coming from the affected area . " 
There have been 18 cases of novel coronavirus diagnosed in Taiwan and eight cases in the UK as of this morning . 
Hsin Yuan said that following the last minute cancellation , she reached out to a friend who let her sleep on the floor that night . 
She then paid for a hotel for two nights while she tried to find long term accommodation and contacted other friends who might host her . 
She told CNN she called Airbnb ’s customer service to report possible discrimination , and after speaking with multiple representatives from the company , Airbnb offered to reimburse her for the cancellation , the hotel nights and an Uber ride . 
She said she only asked for the bare minimum , but Airbnb also offered her a $ 500 voucher for future stays . 
" We take cancellation issues seriously and rigorously enforce a non discrimination policy , " an Airbnb spokesperson said . 
Airbnb said in this case , it " educated the host " on the proper cancellation policies regarding coronavirus . 
That policy makes no mention of Taiwan but says extenuating circumstances apply for reservations with guests traveling from mainland China . 
