More than 9.1 million cases of Covid 19 have been confirmed worldwide , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
But as some countries have not yet controlled the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic , others have announced new outbreaks . 
South Korea and Germany -- who initially seemed to have the virus under control -- are racing to contain newer clusters , which are threatening their relative progress at containing the pandemic . 
The German state of North Rhine Westphalia has imposed a new lockdown in the area around a meat factory hit by a coronavirus outbreak . 
The district where the Toennies plant is located -- and the scene of a Covid 19 cluster that has sickened some 1,553 workers -- will return to lockdown measures , it was announced Tuesday . 
In South Korea , a second wave of coronavirus outbreak is already underway , according to the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( KCDC ) . 
Officials believe the current wave began during the May holiday period . 
With the number of cases expected to increase in the autumn and winter months , KCDC director Jung Eun kyeong added that health authorities are readying enough beds to deal with a large scale outbreak . 
Meanwhile in the US , cases are spiking in some states as the nation continues to reopen . 
The major thrust of new coronavirus cases is in the South and West , where officials say more young people are ignoring social distancing measures and testing positive . 
India , with the fourth highest number of coronavirus cases in the world , has seen more than 100,000 new cases in the past eight days as the country struggles to contain the virus . 
In Latin America , which has seen the biggest recent increases in cases , the also situation continues to worsen . 
On Monday , Mexico recorded a higher daily death count than Brazil for the second consecutive day , with 759 newly recorded deaths and almost 5,000 new coronavirus cases , bringing the total number of confirmed cases in the country to over 185,000 and the death toll to more than 22,500 . 
Brazil , which has the second highest numbers of cases worldwide , has reported an average of 1,000 virus related deaths a day over the past week . 
Brazil ’s Health Ministry reported an additional 654 deaths on Monday , bringing that country ’s official coronavirus death toll to 51,271 . 
