Representatives from the pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies working to develop Covid 19 vaccines said in a House hearing today that they are still on track to have a possible vaccine by the end of this year or early next year — one even hoping for possibly this fall . 
Asked if they believe their Covid 19 vaccine candidates could be available in the US by the end of the year and be safe and effective , officials from vaccine makers Astra Zeneca , Johnson & Johnson , Merck , Moderna and Pfizer said the speed of the process will depend on the data and how well the vaccine 's development goes . 
Here 's what some of the representatives told lawmakers : Astra Zeneca : Mene Pangalos , executive vice president of Bio Pharmaceuticals R&D of Astra Zeneca , said providing a timeline is a " difficult question to answer , " but added that his company is " very encouraged " by the phase 1 and phase 2 trial study results . 
Pangalos noted results of the two closely watched trials published in The Lancet suggest a coronavirus vaccine developed by his company alongside University of Oxford are safe and induce an immune response . 
However , researchers stressed more study is needed to know whether the vaccine protects people against the virus . 
When asked if the vaccine candidate gets approved on an emergency basis , does he hope it will be available by the end of the year on an emergency basis , Pangalos said , " Yes we do . 
So if we have efficacy data we hope we ’ll have it any time from September onward . " 
Moderna : Stephen Hoge , president of Moderna , told lawmakers they are " cautiously optimistic " about their vaccine 's next steps and are quite " encouraged " by the progress . 
Last week a Covid 19 vaccine being developed by Moderna , in partnership with the National Institutes of Health , found to induce immune responses in all of the volunteers who received it in a phase 1 study . 
Now the vaccine is being developed further with a phase 3 trial planned for later this month . 
Hoge said that presuming they are able to accrue cases quickly in their phase 3 study , they hope in the fall or towards the end of the year they ’d have data they could submit to the Food and Drug Administration for them to make a determination if they were to approve the vaccine . 
Hoge said at that point they would hope to have millions of dosages of the vaccine ready for deployment . 
Pfizer : John Young , chief business officer of Pfizer , also said his company is encouraged by the early data from their initial phase 1 study with regards to safety and effectiveness . 
Young said they hope to complete the study by this month and submit the data to the FDA to be subject to their approval . 
He said the large phase 3 study will be " pivotal " in informing the safety and effectiveness profile of the vaccine . 
Young said they have a " line of sight and a clear clinical path " to be able to deliver up to 100 million doses of commercial scale vaccine products in 2020 and up to 1.3 billion doses for a vaccine in 2021 . 
Young said that despite the early encouraging signs , there is " a lot more work still to do . " 
Yesterday , Young 's company and German biotechnology company Bio NTech announced their Covid 19 vaccine candidate was shown to elicit " robust " antibody and T cell immune responses in an early phase 1/2 study . 
The companies Johnson & Johnson and Merck appeared to have longer timelines . 
Representatives for those companies said in the hearing that their goals remain to deliver a Covid 19 vaccine next year if all goes well in trials . 
