Fearing one disaster will feed another , US relief groups are putting some people who fled their homes during West Coast wildfires into hotels to reduce the spread of coronavirus , stringing up shower curtains to separate people in group shelters and delivering box lunches instead of setting up buffets . 
Large disaster response organisations like the American Red Cross are still operating some traditional shelters in gyms and churches , where they require masks , clean and disinfect often and try to keep evacuees at least 6 feet ( 2 metres ) apart , the Associated Press reports . 
The groups say they can reduce the risk of getting infected with coronavirus in a shelter but ca not keep people safe if they do not evacuate from the flames . 
" The last thing we want to have happen is people to remain in the path of a wildfire or hurricane because they think it ’s safer to do that than risk a shelter , " said Brad Kieserman , vice president of disaster operations and logistics for the American Red Cross . 
The fires in California , Oregon and Washington state have killed several people and sent 6,300 to emergency Red Cross shelters and hotels . 
As many as 50,000 more could need shelters before the blazes are under control , Kieserman said . 
Normally , they ’d be gathering in school gymnasiums and meeting halls , sleeping on cots and eating at buffet lines provided by the Red Cross , Salvation Army and other faith and community groups . 
But because coronavirus is easily spread in close quarters , gathering places are potential hotbeds of transmission . 
That ’s got disaster assistance groups taking a different approach . 
The Red Cross screens evacuees and those who are sick or have symptoms are sent to special isolation shelters and kept away from one another . 
When possible , displaced residents are sent to hotels instead of group shelters . 
Instead of buffet lines , box lunches are delivered . 
In central California , where thousands of residents had to flee the Creek Fire , more than 1,200 evacuees are staying at 30 hotels , said Tony Briggs with the Red Cross in Fresno . 
In group shelters , staffers are using plastic pipes strung with clear shower curtains to separate evacuees but allow them to see out from their own physically distanced areas . 
