The immune systems of some people who have not been exposed to the novel coronavirus could have some familiarity with the pathogen — possibly helping to reduce the severity of illness if that person does get Covid 19 , a new study suggests . 
The study , published in the journal Nature on Wednesday , found that among a sample of 68 healthy adults in Germany who had not been exposed to coronavirus , 35 % had T cells in their blood that were reactive to the virus . 
T cells are part of the immune system and help protect the body from infection . 
T cell reactivity suggests that the immune system might have had some previous experience fighting a similar infection and may use that memory to help fight a new infection . 
The new study involved analyzing blood samples from 18 Covid 19 patients , ages 21 to 81 , and healthy donors , ages 20 to 64 , based in Germany . 
The study found that T cells reactive to the coronavirus were detected in 83 % of the Covid 19 patients . 
While the researchers also found pre existing cross reactive T cells in the healthy donors , they wrote in the study that the impact those cells might have on the outcome of a Covid 19 illness still remains unknown . 
So how could their immune system have reactive T cells if they never had Covid 19 ? 
They were " probably acquired in previous infections with endemic " coronaviruses , the researchers — from various institutions in Germany and the United Kingdom — wrote in the new study . 
Using this T cell memory from another yet similar infection to respond to a new infection is called " cross reactivity . " 
" It does appear in this study that there is a significant proportion of individuals that have this cross reactive T cell immunity from other coronavirus infections that may have some impact on how they fare with the novel coronavirus . 
I think the big question is trying to jump from the fact that they have these T cells to understanding what the role of those T cells might be , " said Dr . Amesh Adalja , senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins University Center for Health Security , who was not involved in the new study . 
" We know , for example , children and younger adults are relatively spared from the severe consequences of this disease , and I think that one hypothesis might be that the pre existing T cells that exist may be much more numerous or more active in younger age cohorts than in older age cohorts . " 
