Communities that mandated the use of face masks in public saw an ongoing decline in the spread of coronavirus , but it takes a little time , researchers reported Monday . 
Once mask mandates had been in place for about three weeks , the daily growth rate slowed by about 2 % on average , researchers reported in the journal Health Affairs . 
Their estimates suggest that these percentage decreases could add up . 
They calculate that between 230,000 and 450,000 Covid 19 cases could have been averted by May 22 by mask mandates . 
" One of the most contentious issues being debated worldwide in the response to the coronavirus disease 2019 ( COVID 19 ) pandemic is the value of wearing masks or face coverings in public setting , " wrote the researchers from the Department of Health Management and Policy at the University of Iowa College of Public Health . 
" These effects are observed conditional on other existing social distancing measures and are independent of the CDC recommendation to wear facial covers issued on April 3 , " they added . 
The slowing of the growth rate started within five days . 
The growth rate slowed by just under 1 % after five days of a face covering mandate , they found . 
After 21 days , growth rates slowed by 2 % a day . 
Between April 8 and May 15 , governors of 15 states and the mayor of Washington , DC , had signed orders that mandate all individuals who are able to medically tolerate face masks do so in public settings . 
The researchers compared what happened in these states to the spread in states that did not mandate mask use . 
These estimates represent nearly 16 % to 19 % of the total effect of other measures , such as school closures and bans on large gatherings , the researchers found . 
It is important to clarify , they say , that " the suggested benefits from mandating face mask use are not substitutes for other social distancing measures and how communities are complying with them . " 
In communities where masks are required , people may be more likely to follow other recommended measures such as social distancing and hand hygiene . 
