Australian officials have launched a judicial inquiry amid allegations a fresh coronavirus outbreak in the state of Victoria was sparked by some contracted workers not following protocols at a hotel used to quarantine international arrivals -- including reportedly having sex with people under lockdown . 
Premier Daniel Andrews announced Thursday that the state government would provide $ 3 million to support the inquiry . 
He has previously said a number of cases in late May and early June could be linked to " an infection control breach in the hotel quarantine program . " 
Authorities have commandeered a number of hotels across the country as part of its strict border controls to control the spread of the coronavirus . 
Anyone who arrives in Australia must undertake a 14 day mandatory quarantine at the facilities , which are managed by the government . 
Only Australian citizens and permanent residents are allowed into the country , with a few exceptions . 
National broadcaster ABC reported 31 cases have been linked to Melbourne 's Stamford Plaza hotel , while other infections have been linked to the Rydges on Swanston hotel , which is also in the state capital . 
CNN has reached out to both hotels for comment . 
" It is abundantly clear that what has gone on here is completely unacceptable and we need to know exactly what has happened , " Andrews said in the statement . 
Claims of lack of training and sex with isolated guests : According to CNN affiliate 9 News , the alleged breaches include claims some workers had sex with guests in isolation , and a lack of training for the guards . 
A contracted security guard told the broadcaster 's Today show that he received just five minutes of training before starting the job . 
Officials have not confirmed the allegations , and CNN has reached out to the Victorian Department of Health and Human Services -- which manages quarantines in the state -- for comment . 
In an interview with CNN affiliate Channel Seven on Thursday , Australia 's Minister for Health , Greg Hunt , said : " There are two cases where it appears that there have been clear breaches with significant ramifications . " 
Read the full story here . 
