Baroness Dido Harding , the under pressure head of England ’s NHS track and trace , said the system needs to improve during a second coronavirus lockdown if the nation is to recover . 
In an interview conducted at the CBI ’s virtual annual conference on Tuesday , she said that the main problem was finding and testing people who had Covid but displayed no symptoms . 
Every country is grappling with the same problem . 
Despite everyone ’s best efforts and all of the work of our team in NHS Test and Trace to be the second line of defence , the virus is spreading too rapidly and too widely . 
As we go into another really challenging period for us as a country , it is time for the organisation that I lead to take the next big leap forward . 
We will be focusing on improving NHS Test and Trace so that when England emerges from lockdown we are better able to live with Covid . 
Harding has faced criticism for the performance of the six month tracing system which last month contacted less than 60 % of contacts of infected patients . 
Boris Johnson last week expressed confidence in Harding but said the system must improve . 
Asked about the possibility of a testing " moonshot " as suggested by Johnson , Harding says she could not estimate how many people will be tested by the Spring . 
" I really do not know , the medium term for T&amp ; T is three weeks . 
" It is too early to give a sense of the potential as far away as the Spring , " she said . 
She emphasised that test and trace was only one part of the government ’s armoury to tackle coronavirus . 
" " There is no silver bullet ... hands , face , space , we need to get better at that , test & amp ; trace will get better , but on their own those two will not be enough , " she said . 
Harding is facing demands from senior Tories including Sir Bernard Jenkin that she should resign from the post . 
It emerged on Tuesday that the prime minister and health secretary are being sued for giving Tories including Harding key public sector roles without any open competition or proper process , The Good Law Project and Runnymede Trust have launched legal proceedings against the government ’s repeated appointment of individuals who are connected with senior members of the Conservative Party – without advertising these roles . 
