The 1918 influenza pandemic – often called the " Spanish flu " although it did not originate in Spain – killed more than 50 million people globally and about 675,000 in the US . 
" The intensity and speed with which it struck were almost unimaginable — infecting one third of the Earth 's population , " the World Health Organization said . 
Fast forward to 2020 , the coronavirus is also spreading with astonishing speed as officials and medical experts grapple with how to slow the virus and keep people safe . 
Some of the painful lessons learned from the 1918 pandemic are still relevant today and could help prevent an equally catastrophic outcome . 
Here 's what we could learn from the past : Lesson # 1 : Do not let up on social distancing too soon During the Spanish flu pandemic , people stopped distancing too early , leading to a second wave of infections that was deadlier than the first , epidemiologists say . 
" The image that we have of this epidemic curve , we say we 're going to reach a ' peak ' — we look at it , it looks like Mt . Fuji in our minds ... a single , solitary mountain , " epidemiologist Dr . Larry Brilliant said . 
" I do not think it 's going to look like that . 
I think a better image is a wave of a tsunami , with echoed waves that follow . 
And it 's up to us , how big those other waves will be , " he added . 
Lesson # 2 : Young , healthy adults can be victims of their strong immune systems Young , healthy people are not invincible and their strong immune systems might work against them . 
" In those cases , it is not an aged or weakened immune system that is the problem — it is one that works too well , " CNN Chief Medical Correspondent Dr . Sanjay Gupta said . 
" In some young , healthy people , a very reactive immune system could lead to a massive inflammatory storm that could overwhelm the lungs and other organs , " he added . 
Lesson # 3 : Do not throw unproven drugs at the virus The Spanish flu and the novel coronavirus pandemics share two major challenges : the lack of a vaccine and the lack of a cure . 
Back in 1918 , remedies " varied from the newly developed drugs to oils and herbs , " according to a Stanford University research post . 
" The therapy was much less scientific than the diagnostics , as the drugs had no clear explanatory theory of action , " the post said . 
In 2020 , there is widespread speculation about whether hydroxychloroquine – a drug used to treat malaria , lupus and rheumatoid arthritis – could help coronavirus patients . 
The bottom line : It 's still not clear whether some drugs will cause more harm than good in the fight against coronavirus . 
