Experts have described the Foreign Office ’s decision to advise British nationals to leave China as " prudent " but say it should not be seen as sign that virus has become any more risky . 
Dr Nathalie Mac Dermott , clinical lecturer , King ’s College London , said : " Given the increasing number of cases of 2019 n Co V in China and the spread to multiple large cities within China , which have now also demonstrated increasing numbers of cases and localised transmission within those cities , this advice is prudent . 
The advice is not an indicator of a change in what we understand of the virus or its virulence , it is a decision made on the proportionate risk to British citizens in light of the scale of the epidemic . 
While the risk to British citizens in China remains low , the continued spread of the virus in large cities increases the chances of infection and potentially the risk of implementation of transport restrictions in the future . " 
Prof Jonathan Ball , Professor of Molecular Virology , University of Nottingham , said : " Clearly the government is getting concerned about the increasing number and spread of the novel coronavirus within China and the risk that this might pose to UK residents living or planning to visit China . " 
" This is a judgement call – and not an easy one to make . " 
Dr Michael Head , senior research fellow in Global Health , University of Southampton , said : " This move will probably be reassuring to UK citizens in China . 
There may be significant local uncertainty as to how much risk there is of being exposed to this new coronavirus , and so it seems reasonable to makes attempts to support their removal from the country , until the spread of cases within China has reduced . " 
Prof Paul Hunter , Professor in Medicine , University of East Anglia , said : " It should be noted that this is advice and not a legal restriction . 
The World Health Organization still says ‘ WHO advises against the application of any restrictions of international traffic based on the information currently available on this event ’ . 
Given that the new advice is not an absolute restriction , the UK ’s position does not conflict with that of the WHO . 
" It is still not yet possible to know how the outbreak will develop over the coming weeks and months but the current risks to British Nationals resident in most of mainland China remains low . 
" If this current epidemic does develop into a pandemic with outbreaks in multiple countries then travel restrictions will become increasingly difficult to implement and less relevant towards the control of international spread . " 
These comments were compiled by the Science Media Centre . 
