Congress has been trying to agree on a new federal stimulus plan to help Americans during the pandemic . 
Here 's what we know and where things stand : House Democrats passed a sweeping new Covid 19 stimulus bill in May with a price tag expected to be more than $ 3 trillion . 
The legislation would provide funding for state and local governments , coronavirus testing , and a new round of direct payments . 
Senate Republicans – not wanting to spend that much – announced a $ 1 trillion proposal in July , which included a $ 400 cut in enhanced unemployment benefits . 
That plan never came to the floor for a vote following opposition within the GOP . 
Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell and GOP senators spent the month of August in private discussions trying to find unity behind a plan roughly half the size of their last proposal . 
Since then , Democrats have offered to drop their top line demand to $ 2.2 trillion , but the White House and Senate Republicans have rejected that . 
Instead , Senate Republicans attempted unsuccessfully to pass a scaled back , roughly $ 500 billion proposal last week , a measure that Democrats blocked . 
The narrower Senate bill offered $ 300 per week in federal unemployment insurance through December 27 , and did not include money for a second round of direct stimulus checks to Americans . 
The Senate legislation would 've allowed some small businesses to apply for a second loan under the Paycheck Protection Program . 
This week a bipartisan group of House members on Tuesday announced a $ 2 trillion proposal . 
It is meant to jump start talks between leaders of both parties and the White House . 
The timeline : With fewer than two months until the election , the odds for a massive stimulus compromise sooner than that is very unlikely . 
Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell put it this way : " I wish I could tell you we were going to get another package but it does not look that good right now . " 
With reporting from CNN 's Alex Rogers , Phil Mattingly , Clare Foran and Manu Raju 
