Australia ’s shadow health minister Chris Bowen has criticised Australian prime minister Scott Morrison for not cancelling large public gatherings sooner . 
From Monday , mass gatherings of more than 500 people will banned , but will not include schools and universities . 
Until Friday Morrison insisted he would go to the football to see the Shark ’s first NRL match , drawing criticism from his opponents and some public health workers . 
Morrison said : " ‘ The fact that I would still be going on Saturday speaks not just to my passion for my beloved Sharks ; it might be the last game I get to go to for a long time " . 
Following public pressure Morrison has now said he will not attend the game . 
On Saturday morning Bowen said Morrison had displayed " a gob smacking lack of judgement " . 
He said the public were tired of mixed messaging from the federal government ; 
I understand many people are disappointed about various events , but as I said , tough decisions now avoid much tougher times later . 
I was disappointed , in fact gobsmacked that the prime minister indicated he would still be attending the football after the advice from active medical officers . 
Yes , the advice only formally comes into effect on Monday , but leadership is about more than rules and regulations . 
It is about being the example you set . I understand Scott Morrison wanted to go to the football ... 
I wanted to go to the football as well . 
But as soon as that advice was clear , I thought it was a gobsmacking lack of judgement for Scott Morrison to continue to go to the football , sending a terrible signal and message to the Australian people . 
On Australia ’s home affairs minister Peter Dutton being tested with coronavirus , Bowen said ; 
" We wish him the best , this is not a pleasant disease " . 
However , Bowen said there was " a lack of information before the Australian people , and this confusion makes it worse " . 
Chris Bowen having a press conference now berating the government for the confusion . 
Live on ABC24 . 
