Spencer Fehrenbacher is onboard the Diamond Princess , the cruise ship that 's now been quarantined after 10 people onboard tested positive for the coronavirus . 
He says that around 8:15 a.m . local time on Wednesday , the ship 's captain made an announcement coronavirus infections . 
That 's when they found out the ship would be quarantined for 14 days . 
Fehrenbacher is an American citizen and Canadian resident from Fort Langley , British Columbia , studying in Tianjin , China . 
It 's still unclear if passengers are going to be forced to stay in their rooms for the duration of the 14 days . 
" They have not specified any details about that yet and said they are waiting for further direction from the Japanese government , " Fehrenbacher says . 
Fehrenbacher was even tested for the coronavirus last night around 11:00 p.m . on Tuesday . 
" A quarantine officer showed up at my door and I was taken to an empty room that was being used as a testing room , " he says . 
" They reviewed a quarantine questionnaire that I had to complete along [ with ] all of the other passengers . " 
The coronavirus test was fairly simple : a swab on the left and right sides of his throat for about 10 seconds . 
The nurse who administered the test told them they were testing more 100 people . 
The individual also being tested in the photos is Dorian and another person that wishes to remain anonymous ; both are Fehrenbacher 's friends and classmates whom he 's traveling with . 
Fehrenbacher was tested because , about a week ago , he says he went to the ship 's hospital for a sore throat and fever . 
As for his mood , knowing that the ship has been quarantined , Fehrenbacher says it 's " pretty good . " 
" The Princess crew has been incredible in their support and communication up to this point , " he says . 
" They 're providing complimentary internet to everyone onboard to ensure that everyone is able to communicate with family and friends . " 
He says they are also working to deliver food and water to every single cabin . " 
