Gilead Sciences , the company that makes the Covid 19 drug remdesivir , announced in an open letter on Monday morning that it has decided to set a price of $ 390 per vial for the US government , which would include Veterans Affairs and Department of Defense hospitals , and other governments of developed countries . 
The discounted government price would not apply to Medicare or Medicaid , a Gilead spokesperson told CNN . 
A typical five day treatment course would include six vials , which would equate to $ 2,340 per patient , Daniel O 'Day , Gilead Sciences chairman and CEO , said in the letter . 
The US government will continue to manage US allocations of remdesivir to hospitals through September , the company said . 
The letter added that the price for US private insurance companies will be $ 520 per vial , which adds up to $ 3,120 per patient for a five day treatment course of six vials . 
About the drug : Remdesivir , which is currently administered intravenously through infusions , is the only drug that has an emergency use authorization from the US Food and Drug Administration to treat coronavirus infections . 
Until now , remdesivir treatments had been donated to the US government and allocated by the US Department of Health and Human Services and states . 
However , the US government ’s last scheduled shipments of that donation are going out today . 
" At the level we have priced remdesivir and with government programs in place , along with additional Gilead assistance as needed , we believe all patients will have access , " O 'Day said . 
" Gilead has entered into an agreement with the U.S . Department of Health and Human Services ( HHS ) whereby HHS and states will continue to manage allocation to hospitals until the end of September . 
After this period , once supplies are less constrained , HHS will no longer manage allocation . " 
HHS Secretary Alex Azar announced that agreement during an appearance on " Good Morning America " on Monday . 
" President Trump has secured half a million courses of treatment of remdesivir through September , " Azar told ABC 's George Stephanopoulos . 
CORRECTION : This post has been updated to show that Medicaid does not get the discounted price , but the VA and Department of Defense hospitals do . 
