The dramatic outbreak of the novel coronavirus in northern Italy has forced European leaders to sharpen their thinking , as they attempt to contain a disease that has so far killed more than 2,800 people . 
Europe is prepared for handling outbreaks like this . 
The European Union has no formal role in setting health policy among its member states , however it does issue advice and coordinate efforts to prevent the spread of disease . 
That coordination is especially important when you consider that while many European nations share open borders , their governments do not trust and are not inclined to work with one another . 
The EU has been able to provide a forum and fill gaps in information where this has been the case . 
And for now , it appears to be working . 
No matter how well Europe is handling this current crisis , the outbreak is unintentionally fanning the flames of several live debates . 
A virus that originated in China and spread to two of Italy 's most active economic areas , home to Milan and Venice , creates a perfect storm . 
It tangentially touches on many of the EU 's current priorities and has the potential to affect them negatively both in the short and long term . 
First , there is the perennial question of how effective the bureaucratic body in charge of the bloc is at dealing with continent wide challenges . 
In terms of health , the EU can only really act as an advisory body , as healthcare ultimately falls to national governments . 
The coronavirus outbreak has also exposed the ever shaky levels of trust between EU member states . 
" There 's a meaningful lack of trust , " says Mujtaba Rahman of the Eurasia Group . 
" There is a feeling in Italy that the numbers are high because the government has been aggressive in its policy response . 
There is also a feeling that other member states have lower numbers because they have not been aggressive . " 
Italy has tested more potential coronavirus patients than some other EU countries . 
And in EU politics , trust matters . 
Read all of Luke Mc Gee 's analysis here : 
