It is growing increasingly likely that passing any stimulus deal through Congress will have to wait until after the Nov . 3 elections , according to multiple sources in both parties . 
While it 's possible a deal in principle between the White House and House Democrats can be reached before Nov . 3 , passing a bill through both chambers is highly unlikely before then . 
That 's because of the sharp disagreements within the GOP , the logistical hurdles of passing legislation quickly of this magnitude through both chambers and the fact that Speaker Pelosi and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin still have many outstanding details to sort through . 
Pelosi has not yet told her colleagues if she 'll bring the House back to session next week to vote on the stimulus , sources said . 
So it 's still possible the House could return next week just days before the election . 
But the Senate is likely to adjourn after Monday when Amy Coney Barrett is confirmed to the Supreme Court , though the final schedule has not yet been announced . 
After Pelosi and Mnuchin blew past the speaker ’s self imposed Tuesday deadline , which she said was essential to getting a bill passed by the elections , she also subtly adjusted her language . 
What could come next : Reaching an agreement , of course , is different than passing a bill . 
Plus Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell has no appetite to put a major stimulus bill on the floor that will divide his party just days before the election , something he reiterated to his colleagues at lunch on Tuesday . 
The Senate GOP is largely opposed to a bill around $ 2 trillion , which Pelosi and Mnuchin are discussing , as Republicans try to advance their $ 500 billion bill this afternoon after Senate Democrats blocked it last month . 
What Pelosi really wants is to clear the decks and pass a major bill to help Joe Biden if he wins the presidency , sources familiar with her thinking said , meaning that final passage could wait until after the November elections and before January during the lame duck session . 
Still , it 's anyone 's guess how the outcome of the elections could scramble the political calculations of the White House , Senate Republicans and Democrats as well -- adding uncertainty to how action in a lame duck session would play out . 
Speaking on CNN 's " Newsroom " this morning , House Majority Whip Jim Clyburn suggested that lame duck action is more likely at this point . 
" The election is less than two weeks away , and I believe we will be back in Washington a week or two after the elections and we could something then , " Clyburn said . 
" At least the elections will be behind us , people will know what their futures are and maybe they will be more apt to sit down and get serious about things after their electoral prospects have been settled . " 
