It 's almost like everyone woke up Tuesday and realized that there was a massive cliff coming at the end of December if lawmakers could not find agreement on a stimulus bill . 
The flurry of activity from the unveiling of a bipartisan framework to an announcement from Senate Majority Leader Mitch Mc Connell that he was going to present another targeted relief bill to his members might have left folks who are not at the US Capitol every day with the impression that something was going to come together soon . 
Reality check : it 's not . 
There are basically three separate attempts happening right now on Covid relief and all of them — at least at this point — are a long shot . 
Here 's a look at what they are : The bipartisan framework : These talks between Republican Sens . 
Lisa Murkowski , Susan Collins , Bill Cassidy and Mitt Romney alongside Democratic Sens . 
Joe Manchin , Mark Warner and Jeanne Shaheen and Angus King , an independent who caucuses with the Democrats , have been going on for weeks and were born out of a frustration that nothing was getting done . 
The inaugural in person meeting — a dinner hosted by Warner and Collins at Murkowski 's house — morphed into what became almost daily meetings , constant calls and weekend Zooms , according to a person familiar . 
Eventually , a group of House members from the Problem Solver 's Caucus got engaged making the effort bicameral . 
But , the $ 908 billion framework released Tuesday is just a starting point . 
Mc Connell 's plan : Mc Connell released his own new economic relief proposal Tuesday , a bill he has been working on closely with the White House , House Republican Leader Kevin Mc Carthy and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin . 
The bill includes many of the same provisions from the earlier , targeted $ 500 billion proposal that failed along party lines . 
It 's not expected to win support of Democrats now . 
But , it is intended to be an alternative for GOP members who might be feeling some pressure from constituents back home and need something to point to as progress . 
The Democratic leadership offer to Mc Connell : While substantive discussions between House Speaker Nancy Pelosi , Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer , Mc Connell and Mc Carthy have not occurred still , Democrats did quietly send an offer to Republican leaders Monday evening . 
The proposal was a non starter in part because it did not include the language on liability protections , a red line for Mc Connell . 
The existence of the offer became public after Mc Connell alluded to it during his news conference . 
Lawmakers are slated to head home after the spending bill passes as soon as next week , but that could get complicated . 
There are a growing number of Democrats and Republicans who believe it would be unconscionable to leave without doing something on stimulus . 
Read the full story here . 
