While the nation continues to see record levels of new Covid 19 cases , hospitalizations and deaths , wealthy patients in Southern California -- the epicenter of the state 's Covid 19 crisis -- are offering to pay top dollar to cut the line and be among the first to receive a vaccine . 
High end clients are willing to pay for early access : At a number of concierge medical practices in Southern California , doctors say they 've received calls from their well off clients asking if they can have early access to the extremely limited supply of vaccine doses in exchange for a financial contribution to a hospital or charity . 
Dr . Jeff Toll , whose boutique internal medicine practice has admitting privileges at Cedars Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles , said one patient offered to donate $ 25,000 to the hospital in exchange for an early shot of the vaccine . 
Toll 's practice services a well heeled clientele that includes chief executives and entertainment figures , but the doctor said he is telling his patients they too must wait as the first round of vaccines are distributed to those most in need of protection . 
First shots administered in the state : Earlier this week , California received 327,000 doses of the Pfizer vaccine , administering the first shots to front line health care workers battling the virus that has caused more than 22,000 deaths statewide since the start of the pandemic . 
" I think one of the difficult things is for physicians who take care of these high power people to be able to say , no you have to wait , " Toll said . 
Toll said his practice has applied with the state of California to become a vaccine distribution center for his clients and has already purchased special ultra cold freezers in anticipation of storing vials of the Pfizer vaccine . 
" They wanted it yesterday " : Dr . David Nazarian , of My Concierge MD in Beverly Hills , said a number of his A list clients are contacting him , saying that money is no object if it helps them get the vaccine early . 
" They wanted it yesterday , " said Nazarian . 
" We will play by the rules but are doing everything we can to secure and distribute the vaccine when it 's available to us . " 
Virus continues to rage through California : Southern California has in recent weeks seen an unprecedented surge of new Covid 19 infections and hospitalizations , with hospital intensive care bed capacity plunging to 0 % and health officials issuing dire warnings if the virus continues to spread out of control . 
The founder of Concierge MD LA , Dr . Abe Malkin , said he 's received over 100 phone calls from people trying to get early access to the initial doses . 
" I 'd say that 5 to 10 % of those were willing to try to make some contribution to a charity to get themselves bumped up in line , " according to Malkin . 
Officials push back on queue jumping : When it comes cutting in line , California Gov . 
Gavin Newsom has warned the state will be " very aggressive in making sure that those with means , those with influence , are not crowding out those that are most deserving of the vaccines . " 
" To those that think they can get ahead of the line , and those that think because they have resources , or they have relationships that will allow them to do it . 
We will be monitoring that very , very , closely , " Newsom said this month . 
Read the full story : 
