Stanford Health Care in California has taken responsibility for " errors " in their vaccine distribution plan that excluded most of their frontline healthcare workers , CNN affiliate KGO reported . 
Only seven out of more than 1,300 medical residents and fellows were slated to receive the vaccine , and priority was given to faculty and attending physicians who work from home under Stanford Health 's distribution plan , KGO reported . 
This comes as Stanford receives at least 3,900 doses of the Pfizer vaccine , according to KGO . 
Residents include doctors in training , who often work more than 80 hours a week and are usually the first in line to treat patients with Covid 19 . 
But to their surprise , the hospital did not include many of them in the first round of vaccinations this week . 
More than 100 Stanford Health Care resident physicians and fellows held a demonstration outside the hospital , expressing concern about their place in the pecking order . 
State faces surge of infections : Since the Thanksgiving holiday , California has faced a surge of Covid 19 infections unparalleled across the United States , leading to continued daily record highs in hospitalizations and deaths . 
ICU bed capacity has plunged to nearly zero in vast portions of the state as patients rush into hospitals , which are struggling to manage strains on resources and personnel . 
President and CEO of Stanford Health David Entwistle addressed workers at the protest and took responsibility : " We got it wrong . 
Let ’s get you vaccinated , " he told the crowd , " We ’ll correct it . " 
In a statement , Stanford Health Care apologized for the errors and said they are revising their distribution plan . 
" Our intent was to develop an ethical and equitable process for distribution of the vaccine . 
We apologize to our entire community , including our residents , fellows , and other frontline care providers , who have performed heroically during our pandemic response . 
We are immediately revising our plan to better sequence the distribution of the vaccine . " 
