Clusters of novel coronavirus outbreaks are spreading as cases surge in South Korea , Iran and Italy , though the World Health Organization ( WHO ) said it is still too early to declare a pandemic . 
Here 's what you should know : The numbers : The novel coronavirus has infected more than 80,000 people worldwide and killed more than 2,700 . 
There are at least 2,400 confirmed cases of coronavirus in more than 35 countries and territories outside mainland China , including 37 deaths . 
South Korea in crisis : In South Korea , at least 977 cases have been confirmed , up from 31 a week ago . 
The country reported three more deaths on Tuesday , bringing the number of people who have died to 10 . 
The virus has spread throughout the country , with the worst outbreak linked to a religious group in the southern city of Daegu . 
Iran onset : Iran is on the front line of the outbreak -- the health ministry has confirmed 61 cases and 12 deaths -- - though one lawmaker in the city of Qom claims the death toll could be as high as 50 . 
Iran 's health ministry denies the claims . 
Economic sanctions imposed against Iran by the United States and other bodies have made tackling the disease harder , a board member of Iran 's Association of Medical Equipment Importers has said . 
Italian outbreak : At least 229 people have been infected with the virus , and seven people have died in the southern European nation . 
Around 100,000 people in the northern regions of Lombardy and Veneto are facing travel and other restrictions . 
Italy has not identified " patient zero , " the source of the coronavirus outbreak in the country . 
Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte told reporters Monday that a " not entirely proper " management of a hospital in northern Italy contributed to the spread of the virus in the country . 
More countries report first cases : Oman has announced its first two cases of the virus , after two Omani women returning from Iran tested positive . 
Meanwhile , an Iranian student who entered Iraq prior to the country 's travel ban on Iran has been confirmed to have the virus . 
Thailand , Singapore and Kuwait all reported additional cases on Tuesday . 
Investors are nervous : A mixed showing for markets in Asia Pacific on Tuesday followed a terrible day for US stocks , which plunged on mounting worries about the spread of the coronavirus outside China to major economies . 
The Dow Jones index finished down more than 1,000 points at the closing bell on Monday , its worst day since February 2018 . 
Outbreak is not a pandemic : Mike Ryan , executive director of the WHO 's health emergencies program , said it 's too early to declare the novel coronavirus a pandemic -- but now is the time to prepare . 
WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the virus has pandemic potential -- but it ’s not there yet . 
Military drills on hold : The US and South Korea are considering scaling back joint military exercises due to the coronavirus on the Korean Peninsula . 
The situation in the US : There are now 53 confirmed cases of novel coronavirus in the US , according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , 36 of whom were aboard the Diamond Princess cruise ship . 
Meanwhile , Alabama 's mayor said the state was not prepared to handle coronavirus patients . 
President Donald Trump tweeted Tuesday that " The Coronavirus is very much under control in the USA . " 
Closing access to Iran : Due to Iran 's outbreak , Oman has suspended flights to and from the country . 
Turkey , Pakistan and Iraq have closed their borders with Iran , while Kuwait Airways , Iraq Airways and Turkey have suspended flights to the country . 
Meanwhile , the United Arab Emirates is banning its citizens from traveling to Iran and Thailand , and all flights from Dubai airport to Iran have been suspended , except to Tehran . 
