President Trump has expressed frustration in recent days about some of the ways his administration is confronting a spreading coronavirus outbreak , according to people familiar with the conversations . 
Here are two instances : After both incidents , Trump told people around him he wants to fire those responsible for the decisions , though it does not appear anyone has been terminated . 
Trump has not specified particular individuals , venting instead at the broader situation . 
The President 's frustration reflects a growing sense among Trump administration officials the coronavirus outbreak will present a greater challenge than previously understood . 
Trump 's instinct is to seal the US off entirely from people who could have the virus , according to people who have spoken to him . 
But remember : Trump continues to publicly express confidence in his administration 's handling of the crisis and optimism that it will be short lived . 
Privately , however , he ’s lashed out against decisions made by his team and insisted stricter controls be put in place to prevent those with coronavirus — even Americans — from entering the United States . 
About the economy : One of the barometers Trump relies on most , the Dow Industrials , plunged 1,000 points yesterday , undercutting Trump ’s public downplaying of the potential for crisis . 
Administration officials have been studying for weeks how the virus could affect the American economy , officials said , though their projections have shown only a minor impact . 
Trump has heard a somewhat different story from some wealthy donors and business leaders . 
As early as mid January , US CEOs were conveying worry to Trump during the World Economic Summit in Davos at how the virus might affect their supply chains and businesses . 
He mostly shrugged off those concerns , saying the disease was contained to China . 
Trump 's administration requested $ 1.25 billion in emergency funding to address the coronavirus , as well as the ability to tap an additional $ 535 million in emergency funds already appropriated . 
The White House requested the funds after initially declaring they were not necessary . 
Officials have been receiving calls from concerned lawmakers in recent weeks . 
One administration official said it 's possible there could be further requests once the scale of the outbreak is better understood . 
