The Marshall Islands in the Pacific has confirmed its first Covid 19 cases - ending the archipelago ’s status as one of the few nations in the world to remain virus free . 
The Marshalls government has announced that two workers at a US army garrison on Kwajalein Atoll tested positive for coronavirus after arriving on a military flight from Hawaii on Tuesday . 
It stressed that the pair – a 35 year old woman and 46 year old man – had no community contact during their time in the Marshalls . 
" We can assure the public that these are strictly border cases and were discovered while these people were in quarantine , where they remain until this time , " chief secretary Kino Kabua said . 
The Marshalls , a group of islands and atolls about halfway between Australia and Hawaii , closed its borders in early March in a bid to keep out the virus . 
Pacific island nations were swift to isolate themselves , despite the economic cost , amid fears their poor health infrastructure made them particularly vulnerable to the pandemic . 
As a result , the remote island nations and territories of Kiribati , Micronesia , Nauru , Palau , Samoa , Tonga , Tuvalu and Vanuatu are believed to be still free of the virus . 
The Solomon Islands lost its virus free status in early October . 
Since June , the Marshalls had eased restrictions slightly to allow in some people , mostly US military base workers , subject to a strict three week quarantine at the Kwajalein garrison . 
The two Americans who tested positive had returned negative swabs before departing Hawaii and were both asymptomatic , Kabua said . 
She said the woman had previously had Covid 19 in late July and tests were being carried out to see if the case was historical , and not contagious - while the man had no history of infection . 
Ebon Atoll mayor Marie Davis Milne , a frequent critic of border relaxation , said confirmation of Covid 19 was a blow for the nation of almost 80,000 . 
She posted on social media : What we were worried about has come true . 
Now lives are going to be put on hold because a handful of people made the decisions they did for whatever reasons . 
Life as we all knew it will be in limbo until further notice because of the choices of a few . 
