Spanish authorities in the Balearics are testing travelers to one of the islands , Formentera , which is advancing to " phase one " of the lockdown de escalation measures laid out by the government last week . 
Spain has implemented one of the strictest lockdowns in Europe but now with some restrictions beginning to ease , four of the country ’s islands , three in the Canaries -- La Gomera , La Graciosa and El Hierro -- and Formentera in the Balearics are jumping to the more advanced " phase 1 . " 
That will allow : Further relaxation of restrictions on movement Fewer restrictions on businesses Up to 10 people allowed to gather at a recommended distance Up to 15 people at open area funeral wakes , or 10 indoors These four islands will see an earlier easing of restrictions because they " have not had any new cases in many days , and very few , or no new infections " Fernando Simón , the country ’s director for health emergencies said on Sunday . 
Travelers taking the ferry from the island of Ibiza to Formentera were subjected to a " rapid antibody test , " to determine if it had been in contact with the virus . 
A CNN team making the trip on the ferry this morning were administered the mandatory test , along with all other passengers . 
Spain is testing everyone travelling to the " phase 1 " islands and only residents and essential workers are allowed to make the trip . 
The tests are one of the measures implemented by the central government in Madrid to prevent new infections and are expected to be carried out every day , a spokesman for the Ibiza health department said . 
Travelers who test positive will be stopped and required to get a PCR ( polymerase chain reaction ) test to check if they currently have the virus or if they had it in the past . 
Following seven weeks of strict confinement since a countrywide state of emergency was declared on March 14 , the process of transition in Spain will be gradual and asymmetrical , and decided by the government in conjunction with the country ’s 17 regions . 
Most of Spain enters " Phase 0 " today , with only limited openings of some small businesses . 
Across Spain , masks will be mandatory on public transport as of today . 
