A growing list of countries have issued travel restrictions following the United Kingdom 's announcement that it is battling a new Covid 19 variation . 
At least 20 countries have banned travel to or from the UK , while other countries have imposed additional restrictions on travelers from the UK . 
Here are some of the latest countries to bring in restrictions : Canada : Canada says it will ban most passenger travel from the UK beginning midnight Sunday for at least 72 hours . 
Canada does not have a ban on flights to the UK . 
Argentina : According to a joint statement published Sunday by the Argentinian Health and Interior Ministries , Argentina will only allow one more flight from Britain to land at the international airport in Buenos Aires on Monday morning . 
Other direct flights to and from the UK have been canceled . 
Chile : The Chilean government announced on Twitter that all flights to and from the UK will be suspended , beginning on Tuesday , and that travelers who have been to the UK in the last 14 days would have to self quarantine . 
Colombia : Colombian president Ivan Duque announced that all flights between Colombia and the UK will be suspended , starting on Monday . 
Travelers who have been to the UK in the last 14 days will also have to self quarantine upon entering Colombia , Duque told reporters . 
Iran : Iran announced the suspension of flights to and from the UK for two weeks on Sunday , according to state news agency IRNA , citing an official with the Ministry of Roads and Urban Development . 
Deputy Minister Shahram Adamnejad said Iran ’s Ministry of Health and Medical Education has decided to " halt the flights between the two countries because of the spread of new variant of the Covid 19 disease in the United Kingdom , " IRNA reported . 
Saudi Arabia : Saudi Arabia is suspending all international flights following news of the new coronavirus variant , according the Ministry of Interior , state news reported Sunday . 
European countries : The Netherlands , Belgium , Ireland , Germany , Italy , France , Estonia , Lithuania , Luxembourg and Latvia are all suspending flights from the UK . 
