Over the past week , the coronavirus outbreak has shaken stock markets and prompted concern from US politicians . 
The country has 64 confirmed cases and no deaths -- still relatively small numbers compared to mainland China , where 79,251 people have been infected , and other more recent hotspots , such as South Korea , Iran and Italy , where outbreaks are expanding rapidly . 
But concern over coronavirus is certainly leaving its mark . 
Preparation concerns After a briefing Friday , Democrats said that the country is not prepared to deal with the public health threat , while Republicans were less critical but still said that more needs to be done to combat the spread of the disease . 
" This is potentially an enormous issue for the country and I do not think we 're prepared , " Rep . 
Pramila Jayapal , a Democratic Judiciary Committee member , said . 
Panicked markets The three major stock indexes posted their worst weekly percentage drops since the 2008 financial crisis . 
Trillions of dollars have been wiped out of the stock market in a week . 
Spiking demand for hand sanitizer US drug stores , retailers and suppliers are racing to keep up with surging interest for cleaning products as fears over coronavirus intensify . 
Pharmacy CVS has warned that the demand for those products could cause supply shortages . 
Cancellations The fears are also impacting the entertainment industry . 
Production for the upcoming season of hit show " The Amazing Race " has been temporarily suspended , and California punk rockers Green Day suspended concerts in Asia over the virus . 
Community spread Several people are believed to have become infected despite not traveling to an infected area , or having come into contact with a person known to be infected with the virus . 
Less obvious impacts Companies such as footwear manufacturer Crocs , which has a large retail presence and consumer base in Asia , have been hit hard . 
In the case of Crocs , the company relies solely on non US third party manufacturers , and says it expects a considerable sales hit this year because of the coronavirus . 
