As people around the world do their bit to help stop the spread of coronavirus -- by social distancing , working from home , or other means -- one question looms large : Should we be wearing masks when we do go out ? 
The World Health Organization on Monday stood by its recommendation that you only need to wear a mask if you are sick or caring for someone else who is sick . 
But a growing number of other health experts argue that people should wear masks to help prevent the spread of the virus . 
" We are not going to be wearing masks forever , but it could be for a short period of time after we get back into gear . 
I could see something like that happening for a period of time , " said President Donald Trump , during Monday 's White House briefing . 
A source close to the coronavirus task force told CNN the idea of asking Americans to wear masks for a period of time during the pandemic was likely to be under serious discussion . 
And the Washington Post reports that the U.S . Centers for Disease Control is seriously considering changing its guidelines when it comes to mask use by the general public . 
Tom Inglesby , director of the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security , wrote in a Twitter thread Sunday that " members of the general public should wear non medical fabric masks when going out in public in one additional societal effort to slow the spread of the virus down . " 
Dr . Scott Gottlieb , a former commissioner of the US Food and Drug Administration , also wrote in a Twitter post Sunday that a recommendation from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention " for consumers to wear cotton masks ( with guidelines on how to fashion these products from household items ) can improve safety and reduce spread and not strain the hospital supply chain . " 
WHO and CDC experts have long argued that people who are not sick , nor caring for someone who is sick , should leave masks in the medical supply chain for healthcare workers who need them most . 
The US CDC currently recommends that if you are not sick , " you do not need to wear a facemask unless you are caring for someone who is sick . " 
Yet in China , where the pandemic began , the Chinese CDC has recommended that people " wear a mask when going out . " 
Some experts who have made the argument for people to wear masks have pointed to past research showing their effectiveness against the spread of influenza , and to early research on Covid 19 . 
A study published in the Journal of Hospital Infection in 2013 found that surgical masks could help reduce exposure to infectious influenza virus in the air . 
Preliminary data on how the virus shed from 13 Covid 19 patients at the University of Nebraska Medical Center supports " the use of airborne isolation precautions , " such as masks . 
That early data currently is not published in a peer reviewed journal . 
