Differences in how individual US states have responded to coronavirus are a " major weakness " in the US ' handling of the pandemic , Dr . Anthony Fauci has said . 
" The states are very often given a considerable amount of leeway in doing things the way they want to do it , as opposed to in response to federal mandates , which are relatively rarely given , " the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases told BBC Radio 4 in a segment that aired Monday . 
" Although that works well for certain things , when you ’re dealing with a pandemic , which does not know the difference between the border of New York and New Jersey , or Florida and Georgia , or Texas and Oklahoma ... you have to have a degree of consistency in your response , " he said , referencing shutdowns and reopening guidelines . 
" What we ’ve had was a considerable disparity with states doing things differently in a non consistent way . 
There have been a lot of factors that have led to the fact that , unfortunately for us , the United States has been the hardest hit country in the world , but I believe that disparity among how states do things has been a major weakness in our response , " he said . 
There have been at least 19.1 million cases of coronavirus in the US , and at least 333,129 Americans have been lost to the virus , according to Johns Hopkins University 's tally of cases . 
" Politicization " of public health measures slowed response : Fauci also pointed to divisive politics as a factor in the US ' response to the pandemic . 
" Unfortunately , this year , I think it 's no secret to anyone following what ’s going on that there is a considerable degree of divisiveness in this country , " he said , explaining that this had complicated what " at another time , and under different circumstances " would be seen as simple public health matters . 
" But now what we see is somewhat of a politicization , where ... things like the wearing of masks become a political statement , where ... keeping away from crowds becomes a political statement , that has made it very problematic as we ’ve dealt with this unprecedented and historic outbreak , " he said . 
Fauci said it is vital to continue with public health measures until coronavirus vaccinations are prevalent throughout the world -- not just in developed nations . 
" Until we get that veil of protection , then we are constantly going to be challenged , " he said . 
