The novel coronavirus has now infected more than 3 million people and killed at least 211,000 worldwide , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
If you 're just joining us , here are the latest developments : One billion infections predicted : The International Rescue Committee ( IRC ) estimates that there could be up to one billion coronavirus infections and 3.2 million deaths in crisis affected countries unless swift action is taken to curb its spread . 
US deaths forecast : Dr . Chris Murray , director of the University of Washington ’s Institute for Help Metrics and Evaluation , said the institute 's scientific model had increased its predicted US coronavirus death toll from 60,000 to 74,000 . 
More than 56,000 people have died in the US , more than a quarter of deaths worldwide . 
States are reopening : Texas is partially reopening from Friday , and New York 's first phase of reopening could begin after May 15 in some areas . 
Other states are already taking their first steps toward reopening . 
President Donald Trump announced a " blueprint " on how states should handle coronavirus , Olympics could be canceled : Tokyo 2020 President Yoshiro Mori said that if the pandemic is not over by next summer , the Games -- already delayed to 2021 -- will be canceled , according to an interview published Tuesday in Nikkan Sports . 
But Tokyo 2020 spokesperson Masa Takaya said that Mori ’s comments " were his own thoughts . " 
Higher deaths in UK : The number of coronavirus deaths in England and Wales up to April 17 is 54 % higher than the UK government ’s daily updates for the corresponding period , according to new figures from the Office of National Statistics . 
Two million Australians download app : A coronavirus contact tracing app has been downloaded more than 2 million times since it was launched in Australia on Sunday . 
The COVIDSafe app is voluntary and designed to help health authorities trace people who may have come into contact with someone who has Covid 19 . 
" No vaccine until end of 2021 : " A vaccine wo not be ready until the end of next year under the " most optimistic of scenarios , " according to Pasi Penttinen from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control ( ECDC ) . 
" Vaccine development is a hugely complicated and expensive process , " he told Sky News . 
Countries easing lockdowns : New Zealand is " not out of the woods , " Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said , as it entered its first day of transitioning to Level 3 from the toughest restrictions of Level 4 . 
Austria 's lockdown wo not be extended when it ends on Thursday , and Australia 's iconic Bondi Beach reopened . 
Hong Kong will start loosening some measures and public services will resume Monday after the city reported no new confirmed cases for the fourth time in eight days . 
