A nationwide study of the blood of more than 28,000 people found that , as of July , approximately 9.3 % in the United States had antibodies to the novel coronavirus . 
The numbers ranged from an average of 3.5 % in the West to an average of 27 % in the Northeast . 
For the study , which was published Friday in The Lancet , researchers led by Stanford University ’s Dr . Shuchi Anand , analyzed samples of plasma — a component of blood — from more than 28,500 patients receiving dialysis in July at approximately 1,300 facilities in 46 states run by one lab . 
Why dialysis patients ? 
" Patients receiving dialysis in the USA undergo routine monthly laboratory studies , " the researchers wrote , so there was no need for " considerable infrastructure and expense " to gather samples , nor were there other pandemic related challenges . 
Additionally , the risk factors for getting infected with coronavirus and for developing severe disease — including advanced age , non White race , poverty and diabetes — " are the rule rather than the exception in the US dialysis population . " 
The overall percent of people who were positive for antibodies among those sampled was 8 % . 
Because dialysis patients are not representative of the US population , the researchers standardized the results with respect to age , sex , race and ethnicity , and region , to get an estimate of 9.3 % seropositivity for the US adult population . 
They found that there was a wide variation by state : seven states had 0 % seropositivity , while New York , an early pandemic hotspot , topped the list with 33 % . 
The researchers were also able to see who was more likely to have antibodies . 
They found that , compared to the White population , residents of predominantly Black and Hispanic neighborhoods were two to three times more likely to be seropositive ; people living in poorer areas were two times more likely ; and those living in the most densely populated areas were 10 times more likely . 
They also compared rates from their study with population case counts from Johns Hopkins University . 
From that , they estimated that only 9.2 % of the patients with antibodies had been officially diagnosed by a test with Covid 19 . 
But , as the authors of an accompanying commentary point out , questions still remain about how long the antibodies last and how protective they are . 
Still , they wrote , studies like this one can help find answers if they can be repeated over time . 
The study authors indicated the same . 
" A surveillance strategy relying on monthly testing of remainder plasma of patients receiving dialysis can produce unbiased estimates of SARS Co V 2 spread inclusive of hard to reach , disadvantaged populations in the USA . 
Such surveillance can inform disease trends , resource allocation , and effectiveness of community interventions during the COVID 19 pandemic . " 
