Global cases top 1 million : More than a million people have been infected with the novel coronavirus , according to Johns Hopkins University , a landmark moment in the growing worldwide pandemic . 
The worst affected countries are the United States , Italy and Spain , all of which have more than 100,000 cases . 
Italy 's death toll nears 14,000 : More than 53,000 deaths have been reported globally , according to Johns Hopkins . 
The countries with the highest number of fatalities are Italy , with 13,915 deaths , and Spain with 10,348 . 
More than 1,000 people have died in Germany : A rise of 145 fatalities in just 24 hours has pushed the number of recorded deaths from the coronavirus to over 1,000 in Germany . 
The country 's total number of confirmed cases is approaching 80,000 . 
Indian PM praises citizens amid lockdown : In a televised speech today , Prime Minister Narendra Modi lavished praise on the Indian public for adhering to strict quarantine measures designed to slow the epidemic . 
" The strength of 1.3 billion Indians is with and every one of us , " Modi said . 
Wuhan official tells resident to not go out unless necessary : China 's apparent success at controlling the coronavirus epidemic has given hope to the rest of the world amid a growing pandemic . 
But today the Communist Party Chief in Wuhan , the original epicenter of the outbreak , warned residents to only go out of their homes if necessary , showing the strict measures are likely to remain for a little longer at least . 
Time for national stay at home order , Fauci says : Top US infectious diseases expert Dr Anthony Fauci told a CNN town hall Thursday night that it was time to put in place a nationwide order for citizens to stay at home unless absolutely necessary . 
" I do not understand why that 's not happening , " he said . 
President Trump has previously called for flexibility between states . 
US to issue nationwide guidance on face masks : In a news conference Thursday , President Donald Trump said that US regulations on face masks would be announced soon , but added they likely would not be mandatory . 
