Republican Rep . 
Matt Gaetz , who says he was told he came into contact with someone who is infected with coronavirus at the Conservative Political Action Conference , spent the weekend with President Trump at his resort in Mar a Lago , according to two sources familiar . 
Gaetz also spent Saturday evening as the president 's guest at an intimate dinner with Brazil 's President Jair Bolsonaro . 
On Monday , Gaetz also rode in the presidential limousine in Orlando with Trump . 
The men were seen sitting just feet from each other chatting in the presidential vehicle . 
They both exited the presidential vehicle and boarded Air Force One on Monday for the flight back to Andrews Air Force Base . 
It was aboard that flight that Gaetz " was informed today by CPAC while he was mid flight on Air Force One that he had come in contact with the infected attendee , " according to his office . 
" Once he landed , he then was immediately tested " for the coronavirus . 
Another White House official says once Gaetz was informed , he sat in a section of Air Force One by himself as a precaution . 
In a series of tweets , Gaetz 's official account says , " While the Congressman is not experiencing symptoms , he received testing today and expects results soon . 
Under doctor 's usual precautionary recommendations , he 'll remain self quarantined until the 14 day period expires this week . " 
And his official account also noted that his " Washington office will be closed during this time , with our Pensacola office remaining open . " 
CPAC head Matt Schlapp told CNN that Gaetz was informed this afternoon that he came into contact with the CPAC attendee who tested positive for the coronavirus . 
However , he could not say what time Gaetz was informed . 
Schlapp says CPAC officials are " in regular contact with the patient and the patient 's family " to ascertain who the individual came in contact with at CPAC . 
" We are getting the information and as soon as we get it we contact the individuals involved , " Schlapp said . 
CNN 's Jim Acosta , Kaitlan Collins , Jeremy Diamond and Maegan Vazquez contributed to this reporting . 
