The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention will award almost $ 227 million in aid to all 50 states and 64 jurisdictions to help respond to the huge Covid 19 vaccination effort , according to the Department of Health and Human Services . 
The CDC will allocate $ 140 million for vaccine preparedness and almost $ 87 million for tracking and testing , HHS said . 
" States and other public health jurisdictions are vital partners in the Covid 19 response and especially in the plans for distributing safe and effective Covid 19 vaccines , " HHS Secretary Alex Azar said in a statement . 
This latest funding is in addition to $ 200 million provided in September from the Coronavirus Aid , Relief , and Economic Security Act , or CARES Act , for critical infrastructure support and Covid 19 distribution , HHS said . 
The CDC ’s Epidemiology and Laboratory Capacity for Prevention and Control of Emerging and Infectious Diseases Cooperative Agreement will also " provide critical support " through the Paycheck Protection and Health Care Enhancement Act , HHS said . 
HHS said the efforts will focus on three areas : " Increasing the use of advanced molecular detection technologies , such as whole genome sequencing of SARS Co V 2 ; strengthening public health laboratory preparedness ; and ensuring safe travel through optimized data sharing and communication with international travelers . " 
" These are critical investments at a critical time in the Covid 19 pandemic , " CDC Director Dr . Robert Redfield said in a statement . 
But even including the $ 200 million allocated in September , this latest round of investment does not even come close to what ’s needed , James Blumenstock , the senior vice president for pandemic response and recovery at the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials ( ASTHO ) , told reporters back in October . 
" As it stands now , we do not have any capability to fund the imminent implementation of the plan , " Blumenstock said at the time . 
ASTHO has asked Congress for $ 8.4 billion to help with state ’s Covid 19 vaccine distribution and administration efforts . 
