Hong Kong ’s Center for Food Safety ( CFS ) has taken salmon samples from import and wholesale levels for testing as a precaution following a coronavirus outbreak at a wholesale market in China , according to a Hong Kong government press release . 
A cluster of coronavirus cases emerged in Beijing , which have been linked to Xinfadi wholesale food market in the Chinese capital . 
In addition to seafood , the agricultural wholesale market sells meat , fruits and vegetables . 
A market official told state media Friday that traces of the virus were found in multiple environmental samples taken from the market , including chopping boards used to chop imported salmon , prompting supermarkets and restaurants in the city to pull the fish off of their shelves and menus . 
The market was shut on Saturday . 
According to the press release , CFS said in light of " recent media reports that the novel coronavirus was detected on chopping boards used for cutting salmon during a COVID 19 case investigation in Beijing , the CFS has taken immediate follow up action to understand the incident . " 
CFS also reminded the public to maintain personal , food and environmental hygiene at all times , and to thoroughly cook food , according to the press statement . 
The statement cited a CFS spokesperson saying , " According to current scientific information , there is no evidence indicating that human can be infected by the novel coronavirus via food ( including aquatic products ) . " 
The spokesperson went on to say , " In addition , the World Health Organization and global food safety assessment authorities consider that it is unlikely that the novel coronavirus can be transmitted to human via food . 
Nevertheless , given that raw or undercooked aquatic products are high risk , if they are uncooked or underheated , consumption of food contaminated with bacteria or viruses may cause food poisoning . 
For the sake of prudence , the CFS has taken samples of imported salmon for testing as a precautionary measure . " 
Xinfadi market makes up about 80 % of Beijing ’s entire farm produce supply , and 18,00 tons of vegetables and 20,000 tons of fruits are at the market every day , according to Chinese state run media organization CGTN . 
