Sitting alongside Chinese President Xi Jinping in Beijing in January , World Health Organization director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus was effusive in his praise of the country 's response to the coronavirus crisis . 
But even as Ghebreyesus lauded " the transparency ( China has ) demonstrated , " revelations were emerging that officials in Hubei province and Wuhan -- the city where the virus was first detected -- had downplayed news about the virus , even threatening medical whistleblowers with arrest . 
Days later , the WHO declared a global public health emergency , and once again Tedros praised Beijing 's response -- leading some critics to question the relationship between the two entities . 
What is the WHO ? 
The WHO was founded in 1948 under the auspices of the still infant United Nations ( UN ) , with a mandate to coordinate international health policy , particularly on infectious disease . 
Is it independent ? 
The agency relied on funding and the cooperation of members to function . 
This gives wealthy member states considerable influence -- and has renewed a longstanding debate about whether the WHO is sufficiently independent to allow it to fulfill its purpose . 
Many of WHO 's critics argue that it is overly bureaucratic , bizarrely structured , too dependent on a handful of major donors , and often hamstrung by political concerns . 
Is it an investigative body ? 
The WHO does not usually have its own teams on the ground gathering information . 
Instead it relies on data provided by member states -- a structure that was blamed for the delays in declaring the 2013-2016 Ebola outbreak an emergency . 
This means that the WHO is only as informed as its member states want it to be . 
If a country where an epidemic is developing does not share data , there is little the WHO can do about it . 
With a government like China 's , with a historical aversion to transparency and sensitivity to international criticism , that can be a problem . 
Read the full analysis here . 
