There was not a clear increase in Covid 19 cases , hospitalizations or deaths in Milwaukee after statewide primary elections in Wisconsin this spring , according to a US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report published Thursday . 
Researchers studied data on Covid 19 cases in Milwaukee from March 13 to May 5 to determine if there was an increase in the virus stemming from Election Day on April 7 . 
The findings appear in the CDC ’s Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report . 
As most people develop Covid 19 symptoms two to 14 days after exposure , the report looked at cases during the expected incubation period of April 9 to April 21 . 
What the report found : Milwaukee reported at least 572 cases during that incubation period — or 21 % of the total 2,789 total cases between March 13 and May 5 . 
The rate of cases in the 13 days before this incubation period was 28 % . 
More than half of the at least 572 cases did not report their voting status , and 38 % said they did not vote . 
Only 37 patients , or 7 % , reported voting . 
Of the 37 patients who said they voted , nearly half reported voting using an absentee mail in ballot , while 14 said they voted in person and six said they cast their ballot curbside . 
Wisconsin was the first state to hold an election that included in person voting after stay at home orders went into effect March 25 to slow the spread of the virus . 
The report said these trends were likely influenced by a relatively lower turnout of voters compared to the same time in 2016 . 
Here were some of the voting trends : The number of people who voted decreased by 43 % and the number of polling sites decreased from 181 to five . 
The percentage of people who voted by mail increased about 15 times , from 4.1 % to 68 % , and early voting increased by 160 % . 
The proportion of people who voted in person on Election Day decreased by 78 % –– from 91.2 % to 19.8 % . 
The report says these findings show CDC 's interim guidelines " encouraging physical distancing , personal prevention practices , and employing environmental cleaning and disinfection lower COVID 19 transmission risk during elections , " the report said . 
The risk can be reduced even more , it says , " by fully implementing CDC interim guidance , which recommends longer voting periods , and other options such as increasing the number of polling locations to reduce the number of voters who congregate indoors in polling locations . " 
