Weeks after the novel coronavirus crisis began in December , there is still widespread confusion over the exact number of cases reported in China and whether the epidemic is finally stabilizing at the outbreak 's epicenter of Hubei province . 
On Thursday , China announced just 394 new confirmed cases , the lowest number of daily infections reported in weeks . 
But on Friday , the confirmed number of cases in mainland China increased to 889 , according to the country 's National Health Commission . 
This fluctuation could be partly down to a change this week in what is counted as a " confirmed case " in Hubei province , the epicenter of the global outbreak . 
How has China changed its method ? 
On Thursday the government guidelines changed and " Clinically confirmed " were excluded from the tally of confirmed cases . 
Now patients must have a positive lab test result to be counted in the tally . 
Other cases will be listed as " suspected . " 
Why has China done this ? 
China cited improved testing capacity of the novel coronavirus as the reason for changing the way confirmed cases are counted in Hubei province , officials said Thursday . 
Experts have different takes on the change : The World Health Organization has previously voiced support for the way China is counting coronavirus infections , and said Thursday it was encouraged by the drop in reported cases . 
Some experts , however -- including a former US Food and Drug Administration commissioner -- have expressed skepticism over taking China 's figures at face value , given the government 's track record of suppressing information about this epidemic and previous ones . 
But David Fisman , a professor of epidemiology at the University of Toronto , said the way that officials define cases of a virus often evolves as their understanding of the illness develops . 
But Eric Feigl Ding , an epidemiologist and visiting scientist at the Harvard T.H . Chan School of Public Health , said to change track twice in one week was " very unusual . " 
" It 's very confusing to see true trends and makes elucidating them complicated , " Feigl Ding continued . 
" Did ( the cases ) really decrease or is it because you 've been not reporting this the last few days ? " 
Read the full story here . 
