The numbers : Covid 19 has infected more than 2.1 million people and killed at least 145,000 worldwide , according to Johns Hopkins University . 
The United States reported over 33,000 new cases on Thursday alone . 
Macron on China and EU : French President Emmanuel Macron criticized China ’s transparency on coronavirus , saying in an interview with the Financial Times that the country did not release all the facts . 
The President also called for financial solidarity between EU states , saying that a fund should be set up to finance member states according to their needs rather than the size of their economies . 
Wuhan revises fatalities : A total of 1,290 coronavirus deaths and 325 extra cases have been added to the toll of the city at ground zero for the pandemic . 
Officials said they revised the figures to show " accountability to history , to the people and the victims , " as well as to ensure " open and transparent disclosure of information and data accuracy . " 
China 's economy slumps : The world 's second largest economy experienced its worst three month period in decades as the pandemic forced weeks of shutdowns . 
The economy contracted 6.8 % in the first quarter of 2020 compared to a year earlier , according to government statistics . 
Apple reopens first store outside China : The Apple Garosugil store in the South Korean capital Seoul will reopen tomorrow at midday local time , as the country continues to make progress in stopping the spread of coronavirus . 
The Seoul location will be Apple 's first store outside of China to reopen amid the pandemic . 
South Korea reported 22 new coronavirus cases today . 
US reopening : President Donald Trump unveiled new guidelines meant to help states loosen social distancing restrictions , telling governors it was their decision on when and how to reopen . 
It 's a three phase approach , with the first including a sustained decrease in cases over a 14 day period and a return to pre crisis conditions in hospitals . 
