As the UK sees a rise in coronavirus cases , officials are warning that " people have relaxed too much . " 
The United Kingdom recorded 2,988 new Covid 19 cases in a 24 hour period on Sunday -- the highest daily number since May . Another 2,948 new cases were reported on Monday . 
Deputy Chief Medical Professor Jonathan Van Tam said the rise in cases was " of great concern . " 
Speaking to the BBC , Van Tam said that although people had been able to " relax a bit over the summer , " with disease levels low following lockdown , " these latest figures really show us , as much as people might like to say , ' Oh well it ’s gone away ' -- it has not gone away . " 
" People have relaxed too much , and now is the time for us to re engage and realize that this is a continuing threat to us , " he warned . 
" Do not kill your gran " : Health experts and officials have directed many of their warnings towards young people . 
" The rise in the number of cases we 've seen over the last few days is largely amongst younger people … under 25 's – especially between 17 and 21 , " Health Secretary Matt Hancock said in an interview with LBC radio on Monday , adding the rise has been most noticeable among " more affluent , younger people " . 
He said even though younger people are at lower risk of dying from Covid 19 , there is a risk that they could infect other people . 
In an interview with Sky News , Housing Secretary Robert Jenrick warned young people who are " out enjoying themselves " to exercise caution " particularly when they go home and see their elderly relatives . " 
Hancock echoed a similar sentiment , telling BBC Radio 1 's Newsbeat 's listeners : " Do not kill your gran by catching coronavirus and then passing it on . " 
But some have complained that the government 's messaging has been confusing . 
In August , the UK government ran an " Eat Out to Help Out " scheme encouraging people to use restaurants , cafes and pubs -- which some say undermines efforts to curtail the virus . 
And Prime Minister Boris Johnson has been encouraging people to return to work since May . UK universities are also set to resume classes soon -- despite Hancock 's comments that students going back to university are a " concern . " 
" For ministers and universities to rely on the behaviour of students , rather than deploying the public health infrastructure needed to control the virus , is a complete shirking of their own responsibility , " Jo Grady , general secretary of the University and College Union , said in a statement . 
" Students have been told to move , live , study and socialise together , " Grady added . 
" It is totally unacceptable for Matt Hancock to try and suggest that they will be at fault for any second wave . " 
