At least 35 US states are seeing a rise in new cases compared to the previous week , according to data from Johns Hopkins University . 
Across the country , health officials are sounding the alarm over the number of infected patients seeking medical care . 
Both local and state leaders have said in recent weeks new cases are largely driven by Americans who have opted to resume gatherings and outings to bars . 
In many states , the average age of new cases has shifted downward , with more young people testing positive than ever before . 
In Louisiana , officials reported more than 1,300 new coronavirus cases Sunday — 99 % of which were spread through the community and more than a third of which were in people aged 29 or younger , officials said . 
In Florida , where there 's no statewide mask mandate , health officials reported Sunday a staggering record of new cases in a single day : 15,300 . 
In Miami Beach , hospitals are reaching full capacity , the mayor told CNN Sunday night . 
Across the state , there are more than 7,500 patients hospitalized with the virus , state data showed Sunday . 
In Florida 's Orange County , where Disney World reopened over the weekend , more than 540 patients were in hospitals . 
In California , Los Angeles County health officials reported more than 3,300 new cases Sunday — the second highest daily case count in the last week . 
There are nearly 2,100 people hospitalized , a number " substantially higher " than hospitalizations a month ago , officials said . 
And in Arizona , Phoenix 's mayor told CNN health care professionals are reporting they are " already tired " and worried about additional strains on hospitals stemming from the July 4 holiday , even as the city is already seeing record breaking ventilator usage . 
In efforts to prevent further spread , Mayor Kate Gallego said she 's joined other leaders across the state to urge the governor to expand safety precautions in response to the virus . 
Here 's a look at where cases are increasing across the country : 
