The number of people infected with the novel coronavirus has surpassed 115,000 , with the death toll reaching more than 4,200 , as countries around the world continue to grapple with the challenges of containing the pandemic . 
On Wednesday , China reported a slight increase in new daily cases , overturning several consecutive days of fewer new infections . 
The rise , from 19 on Monday to 24 on Tuesday , has been attributed to individuals returning from overseas , underscoring the difficulties faced by governments as the virus continues to spread rapidly across multiple continents . 
Neighboring Japan and South Korea also saw an uptick in numbers Tuesday , with Japan reporting 54 more cases -- one of the biggest single day jumps since the outbreak began , according to the country 's Ministry of Health . 
Authorities in South Korea , meanwhile , confirmed 242 new cases , bringing the national total to 7,755 . 
As with China , the infection rate in South Korea had slowed in recent days , bringing hope that the situation was beginning to stabilize . 
Though one of the world 's worst hit countries , South Korea has been lauded for its widespread testing drive , which has so far seen around 200,000 people screened for the virus . 
However , new outbreaks linked to a call center in Seoul and the country 's military are likely to alarm officials . 
Western countries are also struggling with their own worsening outbreaks . 
The number of cases in the US has now reached at least 1,000 , with numerous states declaring emergencies . 
In Europe , cases have now been confirmed in every member nation of the European Union . 
Italy remains on total lockdown as its healthcare system struggles to cope , while nearby countries like Germany and France report alarming spikes in daily cases . 
In a speech earlier this week , the Director General of the World Health Organization , Dr . Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , reiterated that different countries are facing " different scenarios , " with each requiring a tailored response . 
" It 's not about containment or mitigation -- which is a false dichotomy . 
It 's about both , " said Tedros . 
Read more : 
