Belgium : Preschool classes will resume from Tuesday . 
Lessons in primary schools will be able to resume from June 8 ( possibly with a " trial " day on June 5 ) . 
Netherlands : Restaurants , cafés and bars , cinemas , theatres and concert halls reopened Monday . 
Secondary schools are reopening Tuesday . 
Students and teachers must stay 1.5 metres apart . 
Primary schools will reopen from June 8 . 
Face masks must be worn by people aged 13 and above on public transport . 
Switzerland : From June 6 , private and public events with up to 300 people will be allowed , including family events , fairs , concerts , plays and film screenings , as well as political and civil society demonstrations . 
Sports training resumes without any restrictions on group sizes from June 6 . 
Larger groups will be allowed in restaurants from June 6 and activities such as playing pool or live music shows will also be allowed . 
Classroom teaching at upper secondary and vocational schools and at higher education institutions will resume from 8 June . 
Italy : Fifty museums and archeological parks will reopen Tuesday ( a national holiday ) . 
More than 180 cultural institutes have reopened so far . 
Museums have to follow government guidelines . 
Games in Italy 's Serie A football championship will restart on June 20 . 
Portugal : Most of the country entered the third phase of de escalation on June 1 . 
People can gather in crowds no larger than 20 people , work in offices is gradually resuming . 
Larger stores and restaurants in shopping malls can re open and the 50 % maximum capacity for restaurants has ended as long as a distance of 1.5 meters is maintained . 
Pre schools are reopening , along with cinema , theaters and bars and clubs on the island of Madeira until 2 a.m . Tourists do not need to quarantine when entering Portugal . 
Beaches will reopen June 6 . 
Ireland : " Phase 2 " starts on June 8 . 
People will be able to travel up to 20km away from home as opposed to the 5km limit which has been in place since May 5 . 
Small retail outlets can reopen with a small number of staff . 
Public libraries may open so long as the numbers allowed in are limited , social distancing is observed and there is strict hand sanitizing . 
On June 29 , crèches , childminders and pre schools for children of essential workers will open in a phased manner ; the opening of all other non essential retail outlets will be phased in ; cafés and restaurants providing on premises food and beverages can reopen . 
They must comply with social distancing and strict cleaning protocols . 
