An unexpected consequence of the Covid 19 pandemic is that sewing factories in the Gaza Strip are back to working at full capacity for the first time in years . 
The AP his this report on how garment manufacturers in the enclave are producing masks , gloves and protective gowns , some of which are bound for Israel : It ’s a rare economic lifeline in the coastal territory , which has been blockaded by Israel and Egypt since the Hamas militant group seized power from rival Palestinian forces in the strip in 2007 . 
The blockade , and three wars between Hamas and Israel , have devastated the local economy , with unemployment hovering around 50 % . 
But the sudden opportunity also shows how Gaza ’s economy is at the mercy of those enforcing the blockade and how depressed wages have become . 
Workers earn as little as $ 8 a day . 
So far , Gaza appears to have been largely spared from the coronavirus pandemic , with only 17 cases detected , all within quarantine facilities set up for those returning from abroad . 
Many still fear an outbreak in the impoverished territory , which is home to two million people and where the health care system has been battered by years of conflict . 
But for now , authorities are cautiously allowing most businesses to stay open . 
Rizq al Madhoun , owner of the Bahaa garment company , said he has produced more than one million masks in the past three weeks , " all for the Israeli market . " 
Gaza may not have the advanced machinery seen in other places , but he said residents ’ sewing skills are unmatched . 
He added : Gaza workers are distinguished in handiwork and they are better than workers in China or Turkey . 
Another factory , Unipal 2000 , is able to employ 800 workers across two shifts to produce protective equipment around the clock . 
Both factories import fabric and other materials from customers in Israel and then produce items like masks , gloves and surgical gowns . 
Unipal makes about 150,000 pieces a day , and demand is high as countries around the world grapple with shortages . 
Asked about doing business with Israeli customers , both factory owners said they did not want to discuss politics and framed their work in terms of business and humanitarian needs . 
Bashir Bawab , the owner of Unipal 2000 , said : Despite the siege in Gaza , we export these masks and protective clothes to the whole world without exception . 
We feel we are doing a humanitarian duty . 
Gisha , an Israeli group that advocates for easing the blockade on Gaza , appealed to Israeli leaders to do more to promote economic activity in the territory . 
" The pandemic has created demand for these products , " it said . 
It added : But Israel must lift restrictions on trade entirely so that Gaza residents can work and so that Gaza ’s faltering economy can brace itself as much as possible against the wider global crisis caused by the pandemic . 
