The criteria European Union nations could use to block visitors from countries with severe coronavirus outbreaks – including the United States – visiting Europe has been " hiding in plain sight " since the middle of June when the guidelines were published , says an EU official . 
European countries are currently working through a checklist of criteria based on the health situation and reciprocal travel arrangements in an external country that would create a list of countries whose visitors might be considered safe to visit from July 1 . 
When asked whether the executive order signed by President Trump this week that freezes visas for foreign workers was a factor , the official added , " I know some media have said for instance the executive order the United States President signed is part of this decision ; it could not be further from the situation . " 
The June guidelines : When asked if the US was on a list of origin countries that might be barred from travel to Europe , one EU diplomat directed CNN to the first point of a June 11 checklist published by the European Commission on what to consider when allowing travelers into the EU . 
The first point on the checklist asks whether the country can " be considered as being in a comparable or better epidemiological situation as the average in the EU + area " with regard to number of new infections , trend of new infections and response in areas such as testing , surveillance , contact tracing , containment , treatment and reporting . 
The latest US numbers : The US has the highest number of coronavirus deaths and infections in the world . 
As of late Tuesday in the US , at least 2,346,937 had been infected in the country and 121,224 had died , according to the Johns Hopkins University Coronavirus Resource Center . 
Tourism accounts for 10 % of Europe ’s GDP . 
" We are keen , and member states are keen for Europe to be open for tourism for jobs , " said the official . 
Ambassadors are set to meet again today and Friday to discuss the next steps in the process . 
Recommendations made by the European Commission are not mandatory — decisions on whether and how to open up borders are matters for individual states . 
