Russia ’s sovereign wealth fund said Wednesday that early analysis of data from its Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine suggests it is 92 % effective . 
The interim analysis came after 20 confirmed Covid 19 cases among Phase 3 trial participants who received the vaccine or a placebo , according to a press release from the Russian Direct Investment Fund ( RDIF ) . 
The RDIF , which funded vaccine production and is responsible for selling it globally , said more than 20,000 people have received their first dose of the vaccine as part of the Phase 3 trial , and 16,000 participants have received the second dose . 
Russia 's announcement follows Pfizer and Bio NTech ’s announcement on Monday that their Covid 19 vaccine was more than 90 % effective . 
However , Pfizer ’s interim analysis was based on more than 90 confirmed coronavirus cases among trial participants . 
Pfizer said Monday it had enrolled 43,538 participants in its Phase 3 trial and 38,955 volunteers have received a second dose . 
The vaccines are different ; while Pfizer ’s is based on a messenger RNA platform , Russia ’s is based on an inactivated adenoviral vector . 
According to RDIF ’s news release , no unexpected adverse events were identified during the Phase 3 trial . 
Some who received the Russian vaccine had short term minor adverse events such as pain at the injection site , flu like syndrome including fever , weakness , fatigue and headaches . 
The Russian Phase 3 trial will continue for six more months and data from the trial will be published in an international medical journal following a peer review , RDIF said in a statement . 
The RDIF told CNN that Russia will publish clinical trial protocol for Sputnik V in November and the next interim analysis will be at 39 coronavirus cases . 
Separate from the ongoing Phase 3 trials , in September the vaccine was first administered to a group of volunteers from the " red zones " of Russian hospitals . 
Ten thousand vaccinated volunteers , including medics and other high risk groups , were observed , RDIF said , and " confirmed the vaccine ’s efficacy rate of over 90 percent . " 
Russia drew criticism when it announced the world 's first approved coronavirus vaccine for public use in August -- even before crucial Phase 3 trials had been completed . 
Results from the first human tests of Sputnik V were published in The Lancet in September . 
Only 76 people were involved in the trial -- too few to determine if the Russian vaccine was safe and effective . 
But the peer reviewed report said there were only mild adverse effects reported and the vaccine triggered an immune response in trial participants . 
