The United States must get control of the coronavirus pandemic or risk seeing deaths skyrocket " well into the multiple hundreds of thousands , " the Association of American Medical Colleges ( AAMC ) warned as it released a new " roadmap " on how to contain and end the pandemic . 
The blueprint by leaders of the nation ’s medical colleges , physicians , scientists , health care teams and frontline workers comes as the death toll from the virus in the US approaches 150,000 . 
" It is critical that that the United States take a united approach to the pandemic , " the organization , which represents the nation ’s medical colleges , teaching hospitals and health systems , wrote Wednesday in releasing its plan for getting the pandemic under control . 
Their pandemic plan : The plan includes addressing critical supply shortages , expanding and improving testing , reopening schools safely , expanding health insurance and developing a vaccination distribution protocol . 
Here are some key recommendations : The roadmap urges the Trump administration invoke the Defense Production Act or determine other means to solve the critical shortages in Covid 19 testing supplies and personal protective equipment ; and set targets for stockpiling supplies . 
It also suggests ramping up Covid 19 testing capacity to more than 2 million a day and reduce the turnaround time . 
It calls for further face mask standards : " Establish national standards on face coverings to stop the spread , especially by asymptomatic individuals , and make them mandatory in areas of growing community spread , " the AAMC recommended . 
The document also calls for " establishing and enforcing national criteria for local stay at home orders and reopening protocols . " 
Other groups have released plans on how to end the pandemic over the past several months as national response efforts have faltered and states have employed a patchwork of approaches to try and mitigate the resurging virus . 
More on the group : All 155 accredited medical school in the United States and 17 in Canada , 400 teaching hospitals and health systems and 70 academic societies are part of the AAMC . 
