British public sector workers are getting a pay rise in recognition for their work during the pandemic -- but nurses are not included . 
The UK government announced Tuesday that it will give above inflation pay rises to 900,000 public workers including teachers , police officers , doctors and dentists , and senior civil servants . 
Teachers will get the highest rise at 3.1 % , while doctors can expect a 2.8 % hike , the government said . 
It added that the two groups will get the biggest pay hikes in recognition of " their efforts on the frontline during the battle against COVID 19 . " 
In the announcement , the government said nurses and other health care workers are excluded from the pay rises , because their salaries have already been boosted under a three year deal agreed in 2018 . 
That argument did not go down well with nurses and their supporters . 
Laura Duffell , a matron nurse at the King 's College Hospital in London said she and her colleagues were left in shock at Tuesday 's announcement that nurses wo not be included in the pay rises . 
" If anything , we thought we 'd be on top of the list , " she said . 
" You can feel the severe disappointment ... it 's almost proving to us that we 're not as appreciated as we had hoped . " 
Earlier this month , the Royal College of Nursing ( RCN ) , a nurses ’ trade union , sent an open letter to the the UK treasury chief Rishi Sunak , demanding more money for nurses . 
It said that the deal agreed in 2018 was " a start after years of pay capping and freezes but did not restore the value lost over a longer period . 
More must now be done . " 
Many nurses and their supporters complained on Twitter about the government encouraging the public to applaud for health care workers every Thursday during the peak of the pandemic , but stopping short of delivering an actual pay rise . 
" The clapping that keeps being referred to as a show of the appreciation for nurses in the NHS . 
I think it has almost left really bitter taste in people 's mouths now , " Duffell said . 
She added : Nurses ' salaries start just below £ 25,000 ( $ 30,000 ) a year in the UK . 
That 's about £ 5,000 ( $ 6,000 ) below the country ’s median salary . 
With more experience , pay for most can rise to around £ 37,000 a year . 
" The applause and kind words were a short term morale boost for many health workers , but now it is time to begin these pay discussions without delay , " the union said in the letter . 
The union added that the low pay is a major reason for many to leave the profession . 
Last week , the RCN released a survey that said that 36 % of nurses are considering quitting -- a big jump from the 27 % last year . 
The union said that of those thinking of leaving , 61 % said pay is a factor , while 44 % said they consider quitting because of the way they were treated during the pandemic . 
The UK cannot afford to lose nurses -- there are currently around 40,000 nursing vacancies in England alone . 
